# **INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES** 

## NANCY MAE EAGLES AND ZIJIAN RONG 

Abstract. We define a differential graded algebra associated to Legendrian knots in thickened convex surfaces ΣˆR. The algebra is defined in the same spirit as the ChekanovEliashberg DGA for Legendrians in R[3] , but makes use of the data of the dividing set Γ of Σ. The algebra is generated by countably many Reeb chords of the Legendrian Λ, and its differential counts certain immersed polygons in the projection _π_ : Σ ˆ R Ñ Σ ˆ t0u with boundary on _π_ pΛq Y Γ. We show that the differential squares to zero and that the stable tame isomorphism type of the DGA is invariant under Legendrian isotopy. Finally, we compute several examples and use the invariant to distinguish Legendrian knots in thickened convex surfaces that cannot be distinguished by the classical invariants. 

## Contents 

|1.|Introduction|2|
|---|---|---|
|1.1.|Main results|3|
|1.2.|Relation to the Eliashberg-Givental-Hofer invariants|4|
|1.3.|Organization|6|
|Acknowledgments||6|
|2.|Background|6|
|2.1.|Convex surface theory|6|
|2.2.|Stable tame automorphisms for countably generated DGAs|7|
|3.|Legendrian knots in thickened convex surfaces|9|
|3.1.|Examples|10|
|3.2.|Legendrian Reidemeister theorem for the convex surface projection|11|
|3.3.|Classical invariants|12|
|4.|The algebra|14|
|4.1.|Moduli space of rigid polygons|14|
|4.2.|The algebras _A_˘ and _A_Γ|17|
|4.3.|The algebra p<br>_A_|18|
|5.|Linearization and examples|27|
|6.|Proof of pB2 “0|30|
|7.|Proof of invariance under Legendrian isotopy|33|



_Date_ : April 27, 2026. 

1 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

2 

|7.1.|Reidemeister|IV(a) move|33|
|---|---|---|---|
|7.2.|Reidemeister|IV(b) move|40|
|7.3.|Reidemeister|I move|47|
|7.4.|Reidemeister|III and II moves|53|
|References|||54|



## 1. Introduction 

Let p _M, ξ_ q be a contact 3-manifold with contact form _λ_ . An embedding Λ : _S_[1] ãÑ _M_ is a _Legendrian knot_ if _Tp_ Λ Ă _ξp_ for all _p_ P Λp _S_[1] q. That is, Λ is everywhere tangent to the contact structure. A smooth map _φ_ : _S_[1] ˆ R Ñ _M_ is a _Legendrian isotopy_ if for each _t_ P _I_ , _φ_ p¨ _, t_ q : _S_[1] Ñ _M_ is a Legendrian knot. A powerful tool to study Legendrian knots in certain contact manifolds is Legendrian contact homology, developed by Chekanov in [Che02] and independently by Eliashberg, Givental, and Hofer in [EGH00]. The homology theory falls under the ever-expanding framework of symplectic field theory, which comprises invariants built out of pseudoholomorphic curves in certain non-compact symplectic manifolds like the symplectization Rˆ _M_ . As initially proposed in [EGH00], under suitable circumstances one can associate to a knot Λ Ă _M_ a differential graded algebra _A_ pΛq generated by _Reeb chords_ of the Legendrian knot. Its differential counts certain J-holomorphic boundary punctured disks in R ˆ _M_ with asymptotic ends at Reeb chords. Some analytical care must be taken to assure that one can actually _count_ such disks. Following the standard setup of Floer theory, one hopes to describe the collection of _J_ -holomorphic disks as a 0-dimensional compact manifold, seen as the solution space of some appropriate CauchyRiemann equation with Lagrangian boundary conditions. In the event that the homology theory is well-defined, though the DGA itself is not a Legendrian isotopy invariant, its _stable tame isomorphism class_ is. Consequently, the _Legendrian contact homology H_ ˚p _A_ pΛq _,_ Bq is a Legendrian isotopy invariant up to isomorphism. 

Well-definedness and computability of Legendrian contact homology have been achieved in several settings, the first and simplest of which is in the standard contact R[3] . Legendrian contact homology has also been defined in circle bundles over Riemann surfaces with negative curvature [Sab03], in _J_[1] p _S_[1] q [NT04], in R[2] _[n]_[`][1] [EES05], in _P_ ˆ R where _P_ is an exact symplectic manifold [EES07] [Bj¨o16], in lens spaces [Lic11], in Seifert fibered spaces with a transverse contact structure [LS13], in connected sums of _S_[1] ˆ _S_[2] viewed as boundaries of subcritical Weinstein 4-manifolds [EN15], and in open book decompositions with once-punctured torus pages [Bra23]. As by its original definition in [Che02], one can avoid certain analytic technicalities in R[3] entirely and describe the algebra combinatorially using the knot’s image under the _Lagrangian projection π_ : R[3] Ñ R[2] ; p _x, y, z_ q ÞÑ p _x, y_ q. The key observation is that a combinatorial model arises whenever the Reeb flow admits a projection to a fibration over a suitable two–dimensional complex base. Under such a projection, 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

3 

one may identify Reeb chords with double points of the knot, and holomorphic disks with certain rigid polygons. This is proved in [ENS02]. 

1.1. **Main results.** Let pΣ ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq be a thickened closed convex surface, i.e. Σ ˆ R _t_ is a B contact manifold such that B _t_[is][a][contact][vector][field][and][Γ][ “ t] _[p]_[ P][ Σ :][ p] B[B] _t_[q] _[p]_[P p] _[ξ]_[Γ][q] _[p]_[u][is][a] union of circles dividing Σ into two surfaces with boundary Σ˘. See Section 2 for a review of convex surface theory. Assume pΣ ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq is hypertight and _c_ 1p _ξ_ Γq “ _χ_ pΣ`q ´ _χ_ pΣ´q “ 0. Let Λ Ă Σ ˆ R be null-homologous Legendrian knot. In this paper, we prove the following theorem: 

**Theorem 1.1.** _To_ Λ Ă pΣ ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq _one can associate a combinatorially defined differential graded algebra_ p _A_[p] _,_ |¨| _,_[p] Bq _, whose stable tame isomorphism type is invariant under Legendrian isotopy._ 

Our invariant does not comprise the full algebra of [EGH00] but can be thought of as some variant of a quotient of the full SFT algebra. When the Legendrian knot has a representative whose projection onto the convex surface is disjoint from Γ (i.e. it is entirely contained in Σ` or Σ´), our definition agrees with that of [EES07]. Our definition is motivated in part by [Ekh16], particularly Lemma 2.3. In [Avd23] the sutured contact homology (as defined in [Col+11]) of thickened convex surfaces Σ ˆ R is computed as the bilinearized contact homology of its dividing set Γ viewed as a contact manifold with Liouville fillings Σ` and Σ´. Avdek remarks that it is the closed-string analogue of [Ekh16] which (in the 1-dimensional case) can essentially be viewed as computing the Legendrian contact homology of a Legendrian knot Λ in Σ ˆ R built from a 0-dimensional Legendrian link _π_ pΛqXΓ in Γ and two embedded exact Lagrangian fillings _π_ pΛqXΣ` and _π_ pΛqXΣ´ as a bilinearized Legendrian contact homology. This paper aims to extend this computation to all Legendrian knots in Σ ˆ R, which means that the exact Lagrangian fillings _π_ pΛq X Σ˘ are allowed to be immersed, i.e. _π_ pΛq X Σ˘ can have double-points. Although [Ekh16] actually proves that the bilinearized LCH indeed computes the LCH of Λ using Morse flow trees, we will only use his computation as a definition. Our definition also appears to be similar to that of [Siv11] [PR21]. 

Let _π_ be the _convex surface projection_ Σ ˆ R Ñ Σ sending p _p, t_ q ÞÑ _p_ . Up to Legendrian perturbation, any Legendrian knot Λ in a thickened convex surface has a _good projection_ onto Σ, i.e., it has only transverse double-points and transverse intersections with the dividing set Γ. The Legendrian DGA of Λ is generated by the double-points and (possibly self-overlapping) arcs along Γ joining two points in _π_ pΛq X Γ. In particular, there are infinitely many generators along Γ. If near Γ we have that Λ intersects Γ orthogonally and is contained in Σ ˆ t0u, then the generators correspond exactly to the Reeb chords. An appropriate Maslov grading can be assigned to each generator in essentially the same way as [LS13]. The differential is defined by counting certain immersed polygons with boundary along _π_ pΛq Y Γ. A more detailed definition of the construction is given in Section 4. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

4 

The well-definedness (Section 6) and invariance (Section 7) of our invariant will be proved completely combinatorially, in a similar style as [Che02]. Namely, we use a brokenheart type argument for B[2] “ 0 and an invariance argument by discretizing a Legendrian isotopy into a sequence of Reidemeister moves for the convex surface projection. The Reidemeister theorem we use is covered in Section 3. As an example, we prove in Section 5: 

**Theorem 1.2.** _There exist two nullhomologous but not nullhomotopic Legendrian knots_ Λ1 _and_ Λ2 _in_ pΣ2 ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq _with identical classical invariants that are not Legendrian isotopic, where_ pΣ2 _,_ Γq _is a convex genus-_ 2 _surface with dividing curve_ Γ _as in Figure 1._ 

It may be possible to extend the results of this paper to define contact homology type invariants for arbitrary Legendrian knots in open book decompositions. 

1.2. **Relation to the Eliashberg-Givental-Hofer invariants.** In this subsection we motivate how our combinatorial definition can be thought of as some variant of a simplification to the geometric model from [EGH00]. 

First we claim that we may quotient out the Reeb orbits. In [EGH00] the algebra _A_ p _Y,_ Λq is given by _S_ p _C_ p _Y, α_ qq b _T_ p _C_ pΛqq, where _S_ p _C_ p _Y, α_ qq is the symmetric algebra on the vector space generated by the Reeb orbits _γi_ and _T_ p _C_ pΛqq is the tensor algebra on the vector space generated by the Reeb chords _ci_ . The differential[p] B on _A_ p _Y,_ Λq is defined by 

**==> picture [205 x 16] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [296 x 17] intentionally omitted <==**

where _M_ p _γ_ ; t _γ_ 1 _, . . . , γk_ uq is the 1-dimensional moduli space of _J_ -holomorphic curves with a positive end asymptotic to _γ_ and _k_ negative ends asymptotic to _γ_ 1 _, . . . , γk_ , and _M_ p _c_ ; t _γ_ 1 _, . . . , γk_ u _,_ t _c_ 1 _, . . . , cl_ uq is the 1-dimensional moduli space of _J_ -holomorphic curves with a positive end asymptotic to _c_ , _l_ negative ends asymptotic to _c_ 1 _, . . . , cl_ , and _k_ interior punctures asymptotic to _γ_ 1 _, . . . , γk_ . Let _A_ p _Y,_ Λq[`] be the ideal in _A_ p _Y,_ Λq generated by words of the form _γ_ 1 _. . . γkc_ 1 _. . . cl_ such that _k_ ě 1. Our hypertightness assumption implies that _A_ p _Y,_ Λq[`] is a differential graded ideal, i.e.,[p] Bp _A_ p _Y,_ Λq[`] q Ă _A_ p _Y,_ Λq[`] . Indeed, the condition fails only if[p] B counts a _J_ -holomorphic disk bounding _γi_ , which would imply that _γi_ is a contractible Reeb orbit. See Figure 2. Therefore, our definition agrees with the quotient _A_ redp _Y,_ Λq of _A_ p _Y,_ Λq by _A_ p _Y,_ Λq[`] on the level of generators. 

Second, we claim that the differential on _c_ ˘ should count rigid polygons contained wholly in Σ˘, or correspondingly _J_ -holomorphic punctured disks in the symplectization of Σ˘ ˆ R Ă Σ ˆ R. This can be arranged by scaling the contact form near Γ to be very large. After such a scaling, the height property obstructs polygons with a positive end in Σ˘ and negative ends on Γ or Σ¯ from lifting to _J_ -holomorphic curves. Hence, our differential agrees with the differential in [Che02] when acting on generators in Σ˘. 

Third, for the differential on _c_ Γ we use the formula in [Ekh16, Lemma 2.3], which counts certain _J_ -holomorphic curves with a positive end asymptotic to a Reeb chord along 

5 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

**==> picture [386 x 349] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Λ1 Λ2<br>Γ Γ<br>Σ` Σ`<br>Γ Γ<br>Σ´ Σ´<br>(a) (b)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 1. Two Legendrian knots in Σ2 that are not Legendrian isotopic. The surface Σ2 is constructed by identifying the pair of pants Σ` and Σ´ along the dividing set Γ in the obvious way. 

Γ and several negative ends asymptotic to Reeb chords along Γ or double-points in Σ˘. The formula does not involve any _J_ -holomorphic curves with more than one negative ends along Γ and we currently do not have any good conceptual reasons to exclude these curves so our differential on _c_ Γ may be different from the actual SFT differential. However, we have the following conjecture: 

**Conjecture 1.3.** Let Λ Ă pΣ ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq be a Legendrian knot. Let _Y_ pΣ _,_ Γq Ă Σ ˆ R be the convex sutured contact manifold associated to pΣ _,_ Γq such that Λ Ă _Y_ pΣ _,_ Γq. Then 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

6 

**==> picture [127 x 162] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
w<br>γ 1<br>c 1 ¨ ¨ ¨ ck<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 2. Contractible Reeb orbits are forbidden. 

the sutured Legendrian contact homology dg-algebra _A_ redp _Y,_ Λq is quasi-isomorphic to the combinatorially-defined DGA _A_[p] in this paper. 

1.3. **Organization.** This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 recalls some necessary background from contact geometry and introduces the contact manifold in which we will work. It also includes a review of some algebra background. Section 3 develops a combinatorial framework for studying Legendrian knots in thickened convex surfaces. Specifically, we make use of a projection map to define Reidemeister-type moves for Legendrians and give combinatorial formulas for the classical invariants. Section 4 defines the ChekanovEliashberg DGA for Legendrian knots, and Section 5 computes the linearized homology for some first examples. Finally, Section 6 and Section 7 establish the well-definedness of the DGA, proving that B[2] “ 0 and that the DGA is stable-tame invariant under Legendrian isotopy respectively. 

**Acknowledgments.** This paper originated as the thesis project of the second author proposed by his advisor Julian Chaidez. We thank him for formulating the problem, outlining the proof strategy, and other helpful discussions. We also thank Michael Hutchings, the first author’s advisor, along with John Etnyre, Wenyuan Li, and Joshua Sabloff for many helpful discussions too. 

## 2. Background 

2.1. **Convex surface theory.** We assume familiarity with the standard definitions of contact geometry. We recall some of them here for convenience, but refer the reader to [Etn03] for a gentler introduction. In this subsection we give a brief review of convex surface theory (see also [Gei06, Sec. 4.6, 4.8] and [ET25]). In later sections we will also assume basic facts about Legendrian knots (see [Gei06, Sec. 3.1, 3.2, 3.5]) and the basic 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

7 

construction of Legendrian contact homology for the standard contact R[3] (see [Ghi12] and [EN22]). 

Let Σ be a closed, orientable surface. Let p _M, ξ_ q be a contact 3-manifold, and suppose there exists an embedding Σ ãÑ _M_ . The surface Σ is said to be _convex_ in _M_ if there exists a _contact vector field v_ that is transverse to Σ. That is, _v_ is a vector field whose flow preserves the contact structure. The _dividing set_ of a convex surface Σ Ă _M_ is the locus where the contact form evaluates to zero along _v_ : 

**==> picture [120 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

Equivalently, it consists of points where the vector field _v_ lies in the contact plane _ξ_ . 

Foundational work of Giroux [Gir91] says that a surface Σ is convex if and only if its _characteristic foliation_ Σ _ξ_ :“ _ξ_ X _T_ Σ is divided by a collection of embedded circles into Σ` and Σ´, in the sense that there exists a volume form _ω_ on Σ and a vector field _X_ on Σ directing Σ _ξ_ pointing from Σ` to Σ´ such that ˘ _LX ω_ ą 0 on Σ˘. This collection of embedded circles is the dividing set Γ of Σ with respect to some contact vector field _v_ . 

The dividing set Γ determines a germ of the contact structure on a neighborhood of Σ in _M_ . On a neighborhood Σ ˆ R _t_ we can write _α_ “ _β_ ` _u_ d _t_ , where _β_ is some one form on Σ and _u_ : Σ Ñ R is some function, and Γ “ _u_[´][1] p0q. The contact condition _α_ ^ d _α_ ą 0 translates to 

**==> picture [88 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

We can find a contact form _α_ 0 such that _u_ ” ˘1 away from a neighborhood of Γ. This is (a version of) the _standard_ R _-invariant contact structure_ with respect to Γ on Σ ˆ R, which we denote by _ξ_ Γ. Notice that Σ ˆ t0u (and more generally Σ ˆ t _t_ u) is convex in Σ ˆ R. We restrict from now on to the contact 3-manifold Σ ˆ R equipped with the standard R-invariant contact structure, along with some chosen dividing set Γ so that pΣ ˆ t0u _,_ Γq is convex in pΣ ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq. We will often refer to Σ ˆ t0u as simply Σ and similarly Γ ˆ t0u as Γ. 

Define the _Reeb vector field R_ to be the unique vector field on Σ ˆ R satisfying the conditions 

**==> picture [112 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

For the standard contact form _α_ 0, it is easy to check that on Σ˘ we can identify _R_ with ˘B _t_ , and on Γ we have that _R_ P _T_ Σ. By definition, this means that on Γ, _R_ is tangent to Γ, see Figure 3. We orient Σ˘ by a right hand rule relative to the Reeb vector field. Namely, loops that run counterclockwise in Σ` are considered positively oriented, and loops that run counterclockwise in Σ´ are negatively oriented. 

2.2. **Stable tame automorphisms for countably generated DGAs.** In this subsection we review the notions of infinite composition of elementary automorphisms and infinite stabilization introduced by [EN15, Section 2.6] extending their finite analogs in [Che02, Section 2]. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

8 

**==> picture [217 x 75] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
R Γ<br>Σ´<br>Σ`<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 3. Relative orientations on Σ˘. 

**Definition 2.1.** Let _A_ be a semi-free DGA over Z2 generated by _c_ 1 _, c_ 2 _. . ._ . An ordering _cσ_ p1q ă _cσ_ p2q ă _. . ._ of the generators of _A_ (where _σ_ is a permutation) induces a filtration 

**==> picture [152 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

by _Fi_ “ Z2x _cσ_ p1q _, . . . , cσ_ p _i_ qy. An _elementary_ automorphism of _A_ is a DGA automorphism from _A_ Ñ _A_ such that there exists a generator _cσ_ p _i_ q with 

**==> picture [98 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

where _v_ P _F[i]_[´][1] _A_ . An “infinite composition of elementary automorphisms” is a DGA automorphism such that there exist generators _cσ_ p _i_ 1q _, . . . , cσ_ p _in_ q such that for all 1 ď _k_ ď _n_ , 

**==> picture [108 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

where _vik_ P _F[i][k]_[´][1] _A_ . (Note that the elementary automorphism only depends on the existence of such a filtration and the particular choice of filtration is irrelevant.) A _tame_ automorphism of _A_ is a finite composition of “infinite compositions of elementary automorphisms”. Note that the orderings for the infinite compositions of elementary automorphisms need not be the same. 

**Remark 2.2.** An elementary automorphism in the sense of [EN15] is a possibly infinite composition of elementary automorphisms in the sense of [Che02], where a finite composition of elementary automorphisms is called a tame automorphism. A tame automorphism in the sense of [EN15] is a finite composition of elementary automorphisms in the sense of [EN15]. In this paper we call an elementary automorphism in the sense of [Che02] elementary and an elementary or tame automorphism in the sense of [EN15] tame. 

Finally the notion of countably many stabilization operations extends naturally from the finite case. 

**Definition 2.3.** Let _E_ “ _T_ pt _ai, bi_ u _i_ P _I_ q, where _I_ “ t1 _,_ 2 _, . . . , n_ u or N, | _bi_ | “ | _ai_ | ´ 1, and B _Eai_ “ _bi_ , B _Ebi_ “ 0. Then a _stabilization_ of _A_ is the free product _A_ \ p _E,_ B _E_ q. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

9 

## 3. Legendrian knots in thickened convex surfaces 

In this section we study Legendrian knots in Σ ˆ R and Legendrian Reidemeister moves for the convex surface projection _π_ : Σ ˆ R Ñ Σ ˆ t0u. Proofs will be given in a future paper. 

Let pΣ _,_ Γq be a convex surface with dividing curve Γ. We equip Σ ˆ R with the contact structure _ξ_ Γ :“ kerp _α_ 0q as in the previous section. Let Λ be a Legendrian knot in pΣˆR _, ξ_ Γq. Later in this paper we assume the following conditions: (1) _c_ 1p _ξ_ Γq “ 0, (2) Λ is nullhomologous, and (3) pΣ ˆ R _,_ kerp _α_ 0qq is hypertight, although none of these assumptions are needed for this section. 

First we investigate the question of lifting an immersed loop _K_ in Σ to a Legendrian arc in Σ ˆ R. A necessary condition is that _TK_ |Γ Ă ker _β_ . The following lemma shows that it is also sufficient. 

**Lemma 3.1.** Let _K_ : _S_[1] ãÑ Σ be an immersion. Then _K_ lifts to a Legendrian arc Λ Ă Σ ˆ R if and only if _TK_ |Γ Ă ker _β_ , i.e., _K_ is tangent to the characteristic foliation along Γ. 

**Proof.** Let _f_ : r0 _,_ 1s Ñ Σ be a parametrization of _K_ . We divide _K_ into sub-arcs t _Kj_ u _j_ P _J_ by cutting along Γ, and denote the induced parametrization of _f_ on each _Kj_ by _fj_ : r0 _,_ 1s Ñ Σ. Note that _u_ p _fj_ p _i_ qq “ 0 for _i_ “ 0 _,_ 1. First, suppose that _K_ lifts to a Legendrian. Then 

**==> picture [314 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

Now suppose that we only know _TK_ |Γ Ă kerp _β_ q, i.e. that _βfj_ p _i_ qp _fj_[1][p] _[i]_[qq][“][0.][We’d][like][to] build a lift of each arc _fj_ : r0 _,_ 1s Ñ R in Σ to some _f_[˜] _j_ : r0 _,_ 1s Ñ Σ ˆ R such that 

- (1) each _f_[˜] _j_ is a parametrization of a Legendrian arc, and 

- (2) _f_[˜] ˜ _j_ p1q “ _f_[˜] _j_ ˜`1p0q for all except possibly one _j_ P _J_ , so that their concatenation _f_ :“ Y _j_ P _J fj_ is a connected Legendrian lift of _f_ . 

To accomplish (1), fix some _j_ P _J_ . Since _α_ “ _β_ ` _u_ d _t_ is contact, 

**==> picture [268 x 16] intentionally omitted <==**

which implies p _u_ ˝ _fj_ q[1] p _i_ q ‰ 0. By L’Hˆopital’s rule, the limit 

**==> picture [222 x 99] intentionally omitted <==**

exists. (Since _βfj_ p _i_ qp _fj_[1][p] _[i]_[qq][“][0,][by][continuity][lim] _[s]_[Ñ] _[i][ β][f] j_[p] _[s]_[q][p] _[f] j_[1][p] _[s]_[qq][“][0][too).] Define _g_ : r0 _,_ 1s Ñ R by 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

10 

Fix any _s_ 0 P p0 _,_ 1q and _C_ P R. Set _tj_ p _s_ 0q :“ _C_ and 

**==> picture [130 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

Then p _fj_ p _s_ q _, tj_ p _s_ qq is a Legendrian lift of _fj_ p _s_ q. By picking suitable _tj_ p _s_ 0q one can arrange that the Legendrian lifts of _fj_ match up at all _fj_ p _i_ q, _i_ “ 0 _,_ 1 except possibly at one _fj_ p1q “ _fj_ `1p0q. □ 

**Remark 3.2.** It is clear from the proof above that the Legendrian lift of a loop that lifts to a closed Legendrian arc (i.e. a Legendrian knot) is unique up to vertical translation. 

## 3.1. **Examples.** 

In this subsection we describe a procedure for producing examples of Legendrian knots in Σ ˆ R when Σ` and Σ´ are homeomorphic. 

## **Construction 3.3.** 

- _Step 1:_ Start with a Legendrian knot in R[3] . [Che02, Corollary 11.3] gives a combinatorial criterion for a diagram in R[2] to admit a Legendrian lift. Drawing this diagram in the interior of Σ` already gives a Legendrian knot in Σ ˆ R. 

- _Step 2:_ Isotope the Legendrian knot so that it has an even number of cusps along Γ. See Figure 4. Note that the isotopy is Legendrian since the area constraint is always satisfied. 

- _Step 3:_ Using the symmetry of the contact form _α_ 0 with respect to Γ we can “flip” half of the diagram from Σ` to Σ´. This gives a Legendrian knot in Σ ˆ R whose projection intersects Γ. 

**==> picture [345 x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Γ Γ Γ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 4 

See Figure 5 and Figure 6 for some examples. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

11 

**==> picture [434 x 98] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ` Σ` Σ`<br>Γ Γ Γ<br>Σ´ Σ´ Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 5. A Legendrian unknot in T[2] ˆ R. 

**==> picture [434 x 98] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ` Σ` Σ`<br>Γ Γ Γ<br>Σ´ Σ´ Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 6. Another Legendrian knot in T[2] ˆ R. 

## 3.2. **Legendrian Reidemeister theorem for the convex surface projection.** 

**Definition 3.4.** Λ has a _good_ projection if _π_ pΛq is an immersed submanifold of Σ whose only self-intersections are transverse double-points off Γ and _π_ pΛq intersects Γ transversely. 

**Definition 3.5.** Let Λ _t_ be a smooth isotopy in pΣ ˆ R _, ξ_ Γq between two Legendrian knots Λ0 and Λ1 having good projections. Then Λ _t_ has a _good_ projection if it can be discretized into a sequence of Reidemeister-like moves: 

- (a) Reidemeister I move with bifurcation point on Γ, 

- (b) Reidemeister II move with bifurcation point off Γ, 

- (c) Reidemeister IIIa and IIIb move with bifurcation point off Γ, 

- (d) Reidemeister III-like move with two strands of Λ and Γ, which we call the Reidemeister IV move. 

These moves are represented locally in Figure 7. 

## **Theorem 3.6.** 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 12 

**==> picture [281 x 72] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
I II<br>Γ Γ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [72 x 72] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [72 x 72] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [72 x 71] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [263 x 71] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
IIIa IIIb<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [72 x 71] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [71 x 72] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [382 x 72] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
IV a Γ IV b Γ<br>Γ Γ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 7. Reidemeister moves for the convex surface projection. 

   - _(a) There exists an arbitrarily small Legendrian perturbation_ Λ[1] _of_ Λ _such that_ Λ[1] _has a good projection._ 

   - _(b) There exists an arbitrarily small Legendrian perturbation_ Λ[1] _t[of]_[Λ] _[t][such][that]_[Λ][1] 0[“] Λ0 _,_ Λ[1] 1[“][ Λ][1] _[,][and]_[Λ][1] _t[has][a][good][projection.]_ 

- 3.3. **Classical invariants.** Now we compute the classical invariants of Λ in terms of its convex surface projection assuming that Λ is nullhomologous. 

**Lemma 3.7.** _The Thurston-Bennequin number of_ Λ _is given by_ 

**==> picture [185 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

**Proof.** The lemma follows by combining the computation of tbpΛq in the Lagrangian projection (see, e.g., [Gei06, Prop. 3.5.11]) and [ET25, Thm. 3.5.1]. Let Λ[1] be the pushoff of Λ in the direction of a section _v_ of _ξ_ such that _v_ is transverse to _T_ Λ in _ξ_ . By an 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

13 

argument analogous to [Gei06, Prop. 3.4.14], tbpΛq equals the signed number of times Λ[1] crosses under Λ, where the sign is determined as in Figure 8. Note that the local push-off diagrams near _π_ pΛq X Γ in Figure 9(a) must come in consecutive pairs as we trace along Λ, since for each segment Λ _i_ contained in Σ˘ ˆ R and its push-off Λ[1] _i_[either][Λ] _[i]_[is][always] to the left of Λ[1] _i_[or][Λ] _[i]_[is][always][to][the][right][of][Λ][1] _i_[(the][projection][of] _[ξ]_[|][Σ] ˘[onto] _[T]_[Σ][˘][is][an] isomorphism). Hence crossings of Λ[1] under Λ along Γ contribute ´[1] 2[|] _[π]_[p][Λ][q X][ Γ][|][to][tb][p][Λ][q][.] For each self-intersection of _π_ pΛq in Σ˘, there is a crossing of Λ[1] under Λ, whose sign agrees with that of the self-intersection, as shown in Figure 9(b). So the contribution of the double-points sum up to the writhe of _π_ pΛq. □ 

**==> picture [275 x 292] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Λ Λ [1] Λ [1] Λ<br>´1 `1<br>Figure 8. The sign of a crossing of Λ over Λ [1] .<br>Λ [1] Λ<br>Λ [1]<br>Λ<br>Γ<br>Λ [1] Λ<br>(a) (b)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 9. The contact framing of Λ. 

**Remark 3.8.** One can easily check that the formula for tbpΛq is invariant under Legendrian Reidemeister moves for the convex surface projection. 

The rotation number rotpΛq can be computed in a similar way as the grading of generators. See Section 4.3.2 for details. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

14 

**Example 3.9.** Let Λ be the standard Legendrian unknot in T[2] ˆ R whose projection is shown in Figure 5. Then tbpΛq “ ´1 and rotpΛq “ 0. 

## 4. The algebra 

In this section we define the Chekanov-Eliashberg DGA in the convex surface projection. As already mentioned in the introduction, our definition is motivated by [Ekh16, Lemma 2.3]. More precisely, our definition agrees with Ekholm’s formula when _π_ pΛq has no doublepoints (so that Γ divides _π_ pΛq into 1-dimensional Lagrangian fillings of 0-dimensional Legendrian links in Γ). 

## 4.1. **Moduli space of rigid polygons.** 

Here we identify the compact 0-dimensional moduli spaces of immersed polygons in Σ˘ with boundary in _π_ pΛq Y Γ that will be used later to define the differential. 

Assuming the projection _π_ is good, _π_ pΛq Y Γ divides Σ ˆ t0u into _immersed polygons_ , whose corners can locally be perturbed to be multiples of _π_ {2. For the remainder of this section, we consider any boundary arc of a polygon along Γ as an acute corner of this type. Under this convention, all corners of immersed polygons are identified with Reeb chords of Λ. As in classical knot projections, we may remember overstrands and understrands of Λ after projection to Σ ˆ t0u by indicating a break in the understrand. We can define orientations for these disks by assigning decorations to each double point/crossing according to the rule in Figure 10. A polygon has a _positive end_ at a Reeb chord _a_ if it has an acute corner at _a_ with a positive decoration or if it has a side along Γ at _a_ ; it has a _negative end_ at _c_ if that corner carries a negative decoration. 

**==> picture [63 x 50] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
´<br>` `<br>´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 10. Orientations of corners in Σ˘. 

**Definition 4.1** (Rigid polygon) **.** A polygon is _rigid_ if it has exactly one positive end, and arbitrarily many negative ends. For a Reeb chord _c_ along Γ, denote by _M_ ˘p _c, d_ 1 _, . . . , dn_ q the moduli space of rigid polygons in Σ˘ with a positive end _c_ in Σ˘ or on Γ and negative ends at Reeb chords _d_ 1 _, . . . , dn_ in Σ˘. 

As in the standard construction of [Che02, Sec. 6] for Legendrians in pR[3] _, ξ_ stdq, the presence of a rigid disk with positive end and negative end imposes constraints on the relative lengths of these chords: whenever two Reeb chords are connected by such a disk, they satisfy a corresponding _height inequality_ . 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

15 

**==> picture [272 x 109] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Γ<br>c ˘ c Γ<br>d 2 d 1 d 2 d 1<br>(a) (b)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 11. (a) A rigid polygon with positive end _c_ ˘ in Σ˘ and (b) a rigid polygon with positive end _c_ Γ on Γ. 

**Definition 4.2** (Height of a Reeb chord) **.** Fix Σ[1] `[Ă][ Σ][`][such that all double-points of] _[ π]_[p][Λ][q] in Σ` are contained in Σ[1] `[.][Then fix a contact form] _[ α]_[0][“] _[ β]_[ `] _[u]_[d] _[t]_[ on Σ][ˆ][R][for] _[ ξ]_[Γ][such that] _u_ ” 1 on Σ[1] `[.][Let] _[c]_[be][either][a][double-point][of] _[π]_[p][Λ][q][or][a][(possibly][self-overlapping)][arc] along Γ connecting two points in _π_ pΛq X Γ. In the former case, let _γc_ be the arc in Λ from the lower strand to the upper strand of _c_ ; in the latter case, let _γc_ “ _γc[∥]_[Y] _[ γ] c_[K][,][where] _[ γ] c[∥]_[is a] positively oriented (as determined by _α_ 0|Γ) arc in Σ[1] `[parallel][to][that][along][Γ][between][the] two points in _π_ pΛq X Γ, and _γc_[K][is][the][union][of][the][vertical][line][segments][joining][the][two] ends of _γc[∥]_[and][Λ.][See][Figure][12][.][Define][the] _[height][of][c]_[as][follows:][if] _[c]_[is][a][self-intersection] of _π_ pΛq, then 

**==> picture [128 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

where _t_ is the coordinate of R. If _c_ is an arc along Γ, then 

**==> picture [174 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

Denote by _R_ p _γc[∥]_[q][the][region][in][Σ] `[bounded][by] _[π]_[p][Λ][q][,][Γ][and] _[γ] c[∥]_[.][Define][the][area][of][an] immersed polygon _P_ in Σ` to be 

**==> picture [102 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

**Remark 4.3.** Both the height of _c_ along Γ and the area of a polygon with sides along Γ depend on the choice of _γc[∥]_[.][Specifically,][the][height][and][area][increase][as] _[γ] c[∥]_[approaches][Γ.] 

**Lemma 4.4.** Let _P_ be an immersed polygon in Σ` with boundary in Γ Y _π_ pΛq. Denote its set of positive/negative ends by _Q_ ˘. Then 

**==> picture [130 x 26] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

16 

**==> picture [300 x 93] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 12. Height of a Reeb chord along Γ 

**Proof.** Throughout the proof we use _P_ to denote _P_ ´ _R_ p _γc[∥]_[q][.][Lift] _[P]_[to][a][polygon] _[P]_[in] Σ[1] `[ˆ][ R][and][write] _[ι]_[p] _[P]_[q “] _[ P]_[.][The][sides][of] _[P]_[consist][of][arcs] _[γ]_[1] _[, . . . , γ][n]_[of][Λ][and] _[γ][c]_ 1 _[, . . . , γ][c] n_ for some double-points _c_ 1 _, . . . , cn_ corresponding to the ends of _P_ . Then 

**==> picture [209 x 62] intentionally omitted <==**

At the same time, we have 

**==> picture [222 x 117] intentionally omitted <==**

Thus we have 

**==> picture [347 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

**Lemma 4.5.** Assume _c_ is a Reeb chord in Σ` or along Γ and _d_ 1 _, . . . , dn_ are Reeb chords in Σ`. Then 

**==> picture [118 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

17 

**Proof.** This is the analogue of [Sab03, Lem. 3.9]. By the proof of Lemma 4.4, _A_ p _P_ q ď _H_ p _c_ q. Thus, _P_ cannot cover arbitrarily many subregions of Σ` ´ _π_ pΛq counting multiplicity. □ 

## 4.2. **The algebras** _A_ ˘ **and** _A_ Γ **.** 

We begin by defining three intermediate DGAs associated to Λ: p _A_ ` _,_ B`q, p _A_ ´ _,_ B´q and p _A_ Γ _,_ BΓq, along with DGA maps Φ˘ : _A_ Γ Ñ _A_ ˘. 

4.2.1. _Generators._ Let _A_ ˘ be the free algebra generated over Z2 by Reeb chords of Λ in Σ˘ ˆ R. If Λ is in good position, then we may identify the generators of _A_ ˘ with double points in _π_ pΛq X Σ˘. In such a case, _A_ ˘ is finitely generated, and the elements of this algebra are finite formal sums of words in Reeb chords. Next, let _A_ Γ be the algebra freely generated over Z2 by “Reeb chords” of Λ in Γ ˆ R, i.e. any arc in Γ with ends on _π_ pΛ ˆ Rq X Γ ˆ t0u, including those with overlaps. If a chord can be written as a concatenation of two nontrivial chords then it is said to be _decomposable_ , and otherwise _indecomposable_ . Any Legendrian knot Λ Ă Σ ˆ R admits finitely many indecomposable Reeb chords in Γ, but infinitely many decomposable Reeb chords, and so _A_ Γ is infinitely generated. 

4.2.2. _Grading._ We will postpone the grading of these algebras in Section 4.3 but remark that a Reeb chord _c_ P _A_ ˘ admits a relative grading, defined as in [Che02, Sec. 7.2] or [EES07], provided that _c_ admits a _capping path_ entirely contained in Σ˘. 

4.2.3. _Differential._ For a Reeb chord _c_ ` P _A_ ` and any word _w_ P _A_ `, we set xB` _c_ ` _, w_ y to be the Z2-count of all immersed polygons in Σ` with sides being arcs of _π_ pΛq in Σ` such that _c_ is a positive corner and all other corners are negative at _w_ . Define p _A_ ´ _,_ B´q similarly for Σ´. For a Reeb chord _c_ Γ P _A_ Γ, we set 

**==> picture [100 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

where _c_ ˚ _d_ denotes concatenation of Reeb chords and _cd_ denotes the product operation of the underlying ring structure. Both B` and BΓ extend to each whole algebra by demanding linearity and a Leibniz rule. 

4.2.4. _Transfer morphisms._ The algebras _A_ Γ and _A_ ˘ are related by maps Φ˘ which we now define. Our definition is similar to [Siv11, Sec. 2.2] and [PR21, Dfn. 6.7]. 

**Definition 4.6.** On a generator _c_ Γ P _A_ Γ, define xΦ˘p _c_ Γq _, w_ y to be the Z2-count of all polygons with positive end at _c_ Γ and negative ends at the ordered word in Reeb chords _w_ in Σ˘. We extend the map to the entire algebra by demanding that 

**==> picture [346 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

We will see later in Corollary 4.17 and Proposition 6.2 that the maps Φ˘ are not just algebra morphisms, but DGA morphisms. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

18 

**Lemma 4.7.** The maps B˘ _c_ ˘ and Φ˘p _c_ Γq are well-defined for any generators _c_ ˘ of _A_ ˘ and _c_ Γ of _A_ Γ. 

**Proof.** Note that any monomial _d_ 1 _d_ 2 _. . . dn_ appearing in B˘p _c_ ˘q or Φ˘p _c_ Γq must satisfy 

**==> picture [110 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

So, finitely many monomials may appear in either B˘p _c_ ˘q or Φ˘p _c_ Γq. It then follows from Lemma 4.5 that the coefficients of all candidates are finite. □ 

## 4.3. **The algebra** _A_[p] **.** 

4.3.1. _Generators._ Let _A_[p] be the free algebra generated over Z2 by all Reeb chords in Σ˘ and along Γ. The algebra splits as the free product of the three previously-defined algebras: 

**==> picture [94 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

4.3.2. _Grading._ We define a Z2 rotpΛq-grading on the generators of _A_[p] , where 2 rotpΛq is the Maslov number of Λ. This is possible since we assume that _c_ 1p _ξ_ Γq “ 0. Our definition is adapted from that of [Sab03] and [LS13] . 

Fix once and for all a collection of generators **X** of _H_ 1pΣ; Zq. Given a generator _c_ P _A_[p] , choose an oriented loop _γc_ in _π_ pΛq based at _c_ which runs from the overstrand to the understrand. For generators _c_ P _A_ Γ where this is ambiguous, we follow the direction of the Reeb vector field so that the loop runs negatively in time between the endpoints of _c_ . We call such a path a _capping path_ of _c_ . Then we apply a variant of Seifert’s algorithm to construct a _formal capping surface_ of _γc_ via Construction 4.8[∗] . 

Figure 13. Resolution of double points along a capping path _γc_ . 

∗ We note that we keep the corners associated to the crossing _c_ , although this is not required for defining | _c_ |. Indeed, for any capping surface of _γc_ , the contributions coming from these corners cancel. Thus, one could equivalently simplify the computation by applying the standard Seifert resolution at _c_ , replacing the crossing with two disjoint, smoothed arcs. We retain the corners in order to keep our definition closer in spirit to that of [LS13]. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

19 

**Construction 4.8.** First, suppose that Σ is simply connected. Given a capping path _γc_ of _c_ , resolve any crossing according to the rule in Figure 13. The result is a disjoint union of simple loops with corners \ _[k] l_ “1 _[γ][l]_[.][Since][Σ][is][simply][connected,][each][of][these] _[γ][l]_[are] separating, bounding an oriented surface in Σ which possibly intersects Γ such that the orientation of _γl_ agrees with the boundary orientation induced by Σ. The choice of surface is not unique, but will ultimately be shown to be only auxiliary in defining the grading. If an arc of a loop intersects Γ transversely, then there is a natural cutting along Γ of the region it bounds into finitely many subregions, see Figure 14. Let \ _[j] i_ “1 _[γ]_[˜] _[i]_[denote][the][final] set of loops obtained after all such cuttings. We define the formal sum 

**==> picture [66 x 32] intentionally omitted <==**

where _ui_ are the chosen regions bound by each _γ_ ˜ _i_ , and _ci_ are coefficients assigned via the following rule: if the induced orientation of _γ_ ˜ _i_ agrees with the orientation given in Figure 3, then set _ci_ “ `1. Similarly, if it disagrees, set _ci_ “ ´1. 

**==> picture [251 x 83] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Γ r r<br>γi γi [1]<br>γi<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 14 

If Σ is not simply connected, then applying the resolution of Figure 13 may result in loops _γi_ that are non-separating. In this case, each _γi_ is homologous to a linear combination of generators in **X** _i_ . We amend each _γi_ by adding this linear combination of generators with reversed orientation. Such a curve is now separating, and we may proceed with Construction 4.8. 

**Definition 4.9.** Let _u_ : _S_ Ñ Σ˘z _π_ pΛq be a subregion with boundary such that _u_ is orientation-preserving if _u_ p _S_ q Ă Σ` and orientation-reversing if _u_ p _S_ q Ă Σ´. If _u_ has _k_ corners, define the _rotation number_ of _u_ as 

**==> picture [140 x 32] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

20 

where _mi_ is the number of quadrants covered by the _i_ -th corner. Extend this to define the _rotation number_ of a formal capping surface by 

**==> picture [126 x 33] intentionally omitted <==**

**Definition 4.10.** Let _c_ be a generator of _A_[p] . Pick a capping path _γc_ for _c_ and pick a formal capping surface _Sc_ for _γc_ following Construction 4.8. Define 

**==> picture [164 x 39] intentionally omitted <==**

and |p _c_ Γ| “ | _c_ Γ| ` 1 for generators _c_ ˘ of _A_ ˘ and _c_ Γ of _A_ Γ. 

Definition 4.10 is morally identical to that in the standard Legendrian contact homology of R[3] , see [Che02, Sec. 3.1], which we comment further on in Example 4.15 and Remark 4.18. Construction 4.8 is heavily inspired by that in [LS13, Sec. 4.2], with the distinction that our grading takes values in Z rather than Q. The grading in [LS13, Sec. 4.2] takes rational values since the base space of their projection map is an orbifold and not necessarily a smooth surface. Consequently, their grading makes use of a _rational_ Euler characteristic and so-called _defects_ . Our projection has no orbifold points, and so we do not require a rational grading. More directly, our construction yields integer values since for a chord _c_ ˘, the resolution of Construction 4.8 produces a capping surface with an odd number of corners, while for _c_ Γ it produces a capping surface with an even number of corners. Hence _r_ p _Sc_ ˘q is an odd multiple of 1{4, while _r_ p _Sc_ Γq is an even multiple of 1{4. Here we make use of the fact that we can perturb the diagram locally so that crossings in Σ˘ and intersections of Λ and Γ are orthogonal. 

**Lemma 4.11.** The grading | ¨ | is well-defined. 

**Proof.** We want to show that for any _c_ P _A_[p] , | _c_ | is independent of the choice of capping path _γ_ and formal capping surface _S_ . We’ll begin with the latter, so first fix a choice of _γ_ . Any two capping surfaces differ by a multiple of Σ. We claim that _r_ pΣq “ 0. We can write 

**==> picture [66 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

as a formal capping surface, which implies 

**==> picture [257 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

Hence for a fixed capping path | _c_ | is independent of choice of the capping surface. To prove the former, first note that two capping paths differ by a multiple of _π_ pΛq. Let _S_ be a Seifert surface of _π_ pΛq. We claim that _r_ p _S_ q “ rotpΛq. By definition rotpΛq is the degree of _γ_[1] for a parametrization _γ_ of Λ. Extend _γ_[1] to be a vector field _Y_ on _S_ and by perturbing _Y_ 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

21 

generically (relative to B _S_ ) we may assume that _Y_ has finitely many isolated zeros. Then by the Poincar´e-Hopf theorem we have 

rotpΛq “ indp _Y_ q “ _χ_ p _S_ q “ _r_ p _S_ q _._ 

Therefore, the two gradings differ by a multiple of 2 _r_ p _S_ q “ 2 rotpΛq. 

□ 

**==> picture [160 x 149] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ`<br>Λ<br>Γ<br>c d<br>Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 15. The standard unknot in T[2] ˆ R. 

**==> picture [160 x 149] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Sd<br>γc<br>Sc<br>c d Γ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 16. Capping surfaces for Reeb chords _c_ and _d_ . 

**Example 4.12.** Consider the standard unknot in Figure 15. Here Σ “ T[2] and #Γ “ 2 with slope 0. We pick **X** to be “boundary” of the square. For the Reeb chord _c_ , we pick 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

22 

the capping path _γc_ to be the upper half of _π_ pΛq and the capping surface _Sc_ to be the upper half-disk which is positively oriented, see Figure 16. Note that 

**==> picture [216 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

For the Reeb chord _d_ , we pick the capping path _γd_ to be _γc_ with the opposite orientation, and pick the capping surface _Sd_ “ Σ` ´ _Sc_ . We compute 

**==> picture [240 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

Finally, for the Reeb chord _c_ ˚ _d_ , we pick the capping surface to be the cylinder Σ`, which is positively oriented. We compute 

**==> picture [230 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

From this one can either compute similarly or infer from | _c_ | and | _d_ | the grading of all other chords. 

**==> picture [182 x 190] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
γ β<br>d c<br>δ α<br>Λ<br>Γ<br>Σ`<br>γ d c β<br>Σ´<br>δ α<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 17. The standard unknot in Σ2 ˆ R. 

**Example 4.13.** Consider the example in Figure 17. Here Σ is a genus-2 surface and Γ divides Σ into two pair-of-pants. We set **X** “ t _a, b, β, γ_ u. For the Reeb chord _c_ , we pick the capping path _γc_ to be the arc of _π_ pΛq which does not intersect **X** , and the capping surface _Sc_ to be the cylinder as in Figure 18 (a). We compute 

**==> picture [236 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

23 

**==> picture [414 x 190] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
γ β γ β<br>d c d c<br>δ α δ α<br>γc<br>Sd Sc Sc ˚ d<br>γ d c β γ d c β<br>δ α δ α<br>(a) (b)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 18. Capping surfaces for Reeb chords (a) _c_ and _d_ , and (b) _c_ ˚ _d_ . 

For the Reeb chord _d_ , we pick the capping path _γd_ to be _γc_ with reversed orientation, and pick the capping surface _Sd_ to be the cylinder as in Figure 18 (a). We compute 

**==> picture [240 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

Finally, for the Reeb chord _c_ ˚ _d_ , we choose the empty capping path, and the formal capping surface _Sc_ ˚ _d_ to be the pair-of-pants as in Figure 18 (b). We compute 

**==> picture [284 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

From this one can either compute similarly or infer from | _c_ | and | _d_ | the grading of all other chords. 

So far our examples have focused on knots whose capping paths require no Seifert resolutions. The following example demonstrates the procedure for a trefoil knot with a chord whose capping path _does_ require a resolution. 

**Example 4.14.** Consider the torus knot in Figure 19. We leave it as an exercise that it has a Legendrian lift (see Construction 3.3). Here, Σ “ T[2] and #Γ “ 2 with slope 0. As before, we pick **X** to be the “boundary” of the square. For the Reeb chord _c_ , There are two choices of capping path _γc_ : one that remains entirely in Σ`, and one that intersects Γ multiple times. Choose the latter path to be _γc_ . We perform a Seifert resolution following Construction 4.8 to obtain Figure 20(a), so that _c_ admits a capping surface _Sc_ “ ´ _A_ ` _B_ ` _C_ as in Figure 20. We compute 

**==> picture [324 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

24 

**==> picture [160 x 149] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ`<br>Λ<br>c<br>Γ<br>Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 19 

**==> picture [360 x 181] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ` Σ`<br>γc γc<br>A<br>c<br>Γ Γ<br>B<br>C<br>Σ´ Σ´<br>(a) (b)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 20 

so that 

**==> picture [150 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

It is easy to check that this agrees with the grading given by choosing the other capping path. 

The following example highlights that the grading of generators extends that of Chekanov (see proof of [Che02, Lem. 6.3]), except that there is a ´2 ¨[1] 4[adjustment in][ |] _[c]_[Γ][|][ accounting] 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

25 

for the fact that we are viewing _c_ Γ as a corner (the positive corner) rather than an edge of a polygon: 

**Example 4.15.** Let Σ is a torus T[2] and #Γ “ 2 with slope 0. Suppose that Λ Ă Σ ˆ R is a Legendrian knot and that _π_ pΛq is null-homotopic. Let rotp _γ_ q denote the rotation number of a curve _γ_ in R[2] . Then 

**==> picture [164 x 41] intentionally omitted <==**

for generators _c_ ˘ of _A_ ˘ and _c_ Γ of _A_ Γ. Note that the rotation number of a counterclockwise circle is `1 in Σ` and ´1 in Σ´. 

**Lemma 4.16.** Let _u_ be an immersed polygon with positive corner _c_ 1 and negative corners _c_ 2 _, . . . , ck_ . Then 

**==> picture [82 x 32] intentionally omitted <==**

(If _c_ 1 is along Γ we use |p _c_ 1| instead.) 

**Proof.** This is the analogue of [Che02, Lem. 6.3] and [LS13, Thm 4.8]. Pick corresponding capping surfaces _Sci_ . Since both _Sc_ 1 and _Sc_ 2 ` ¨ ¨ ¨ ` _Sck_ ` _u_ are formal capping surfaces of _c_ 1, then modulo 2 rotpΛq we have 

**==> picture [178 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

Assume _c_ 1 is in Σ˘. Then 

**==> picture [126 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

Hence, 

**==> picture [227 x 99] intentionally omitted <==**

If _c_ 1 is along Γ, then _r_ p _u_ q “ 1 ´ _[k]_[`] 4[1] and | _c_ 1| “ 2 _r_ p _Sc_ 1q ´ 1, so |p _c_ 1| “ | _c_ 1| ` 1 “ | _c_ 2| ` ¨ ¨ ¨ ` | _ck_ | ` 1 _._ 

**==> picture [10 x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

**Corollary 4.17.** Φ˘ : _A_ Γ Ñ _A_ ˘ preserves the grading. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

26 

**Proof.** This follows from Lemma 4.16 and the fact that |p _c_ Γ| “ | _c_ Γ| ` 1. □ 

**Remark 4.18.** One should expect the above to give a grading that is in the spirit of the standard geometric definition, see for example [EGH00, Sec. 1.6]. Under the identification _H_ 1pΣ ˆ Rq » _H_ 1pΣq, we may choose a symplectic trivialization of _ξ_ over the lifts of each generator _Xi_ P **X** Ă _H_ 1pΣq. For a Reeb chord _c_ P _A_[p] , let _S_ denote the formal capping surface associated to a capping path _γ_ . The surface _S_ lifts to a surface in Σ ˆ R, and there exists a trivialization of _ξ_ along _γ_ that extends over _ξ_ | _S_ and agrees with the chosen trivializations along the lifts of the _Xi_ . With respect to this trivialization, one can associate to _γ_ and hence to _c_ a well-defined Conley–Zehnder index. This is analogous to [LS13, Rem. 4.4]. 

4.3.3. _Differential._ Our definition of the differential coincides with [Ekh16, Lem. 2.3] when _π_ pΛq Ă Σ is embedded (see also [EHK16, Sec. 3.4, 3.5]). For generators _c_ ˘ of _A_ ˘, we use the same grading as in _A_ ˘ and define 

**==> picture [69 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

For generators _c_ Γ of _A_ Γ, we increase the grading by 1 (using the notation p _c_ Γ) and define p p Bp _c_ Γq “ ΩpBΓ _c_ Γq ` Φ`p _c_ Γq ` Φ´p _c_ Γq _,_ 

where 

**==> picture [138 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

and extend Ωso that it is a chain homotopy between Φ` and Φ´, i.e., 

Ωp _c_[1] Γ _[c]_[2] Γ[q “][ Φ][`][p] _[c]_[1] Γ[q][p] _[c]_[2] Γ[`][ p] _[c]_[1] Γ[Φ][´][p] _[c]_[2] Γ[q] 

for generators _c_[1] Γ _[, c]_[2] Γ[of] _[A]_[Γ][,][and][more][generally,] 

p p Ωp _c_[1] Γ _[. . . c][n]_ Γ[q “][ Φ][`][p] _[c]_[1] Γ _[. . . c][n]_ Γ[´][1] q _c[n]_ Γ[`][ Φ][`][p] _[c]_[1] Γ _[. . . c][n]_ Γ[´][2] q _c[n]_ Γ[´][1] Φ´p _c[n]_ Γ[q ` ¨ ¨ ¨ `][ p] _[c]_[1] Γ[Φ][´][p] _[c]_[2] Γ _[. . . c][n]_ Γ[q] for generators _c_[1] Γ _[, . . . , c][n]_ Γ[of] _[A]_[Γ][.][We][remark][that][in][general,][arbitrarily][long][Reeb][chords] can have nontrivial differential, see Example 4.19. In Lemma 4.20 and Corollary 4.21 we give a homotopy condition on Λ such that[p] Bp _c_ q “ 0 for _H_ p _c_ q sufficiently large. 

**Example 4.19.** Consider the trefoil knot in Figure 21. Here, Σ “ T[2] and #Γ “ 2 with slope 0. There are two indecomposable chords along Γ, _a_ and _b_ . We can readily read off for example that x[p] Bp _b_ ˚ p _ab_ q[˚] _[n]_ q _, de[n]_[`][1] _c_ y “ 1. 

**Lemma 4.20.** Assume that _c_ Γ winds around Γ for _n_ times (but not necessarily closed) and Φ`p _c_ Γq ‰ 0 (or Φ´p _c_ Γq ‰ 0). Then there exists a (piecewise-smooth) arc _γ_ 1 in _π_ pΛq and a non-self-overlapping arc _γ_ 2 along Γ such that _γ_ 1 ¨ _γ_ 2 is closed and winds around Γ for _n_ times, where “¨” denotes concatenation of two arcs. 

**Proof.** Let _γ_ 1 be the concatenation of all sides of a polygon counted in Φ˘p _c_ Γq but _c_ Γ. Then _γ_ 1 is homotopic to _c_ Γ. Find a non-self-overlapping arc _γ_ 2 along Γ such that _c_ Γ ¨ _γ_ 2 is closed and winds around Γ for _n_ times. Then _γ_ 1 ¨ _γ_ 2 is homotopic to _c_ Γ ¨ _γ_ 2. □ 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

27 

**==> picture [167 x 156] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ` f<br>c e<br>d<br>Γ<br>a b<br>Λ<br>Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 21. A Legendrian trefoil knot in T[2] ˆ R. 

**Corollary 4.21.** If _π_ pΛq is nullhomotopic, then there exists an _l_ ą 0 such that for all generator _c_ of _A_ Γ, _H_ p _c_ q ą _l_ implies Φ˘p _c_ q “ 0. 

**Proof.** Equivalently, _π_ pΛq is contained in a disk in Σ. So in the lemma above _γ_ 1 ¨ _γ_ 2 is a trivial loop in Γ. □ 

**==> picture [10 x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

## 5. Linearization and examples 

In this section, we compute several examples of linearized Legendrian contact homology induced by augmentations. This is the counterpart of [Che02, Sec. 4, 5]. 

**Example 5.1.** (the standard unknot) Consider the standard unknot Λ (i.e. tb “ ´1, rot “ 0) in Figure 15. To simplify the notation we suppress all “widehat” symbols above the Reeb chords along Γ. The generators of _A_[p] are 

**==> picture [250 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

where _n_ ě 0. The gradings are given by 

**==> picture [362 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

The differential is given by 

**==> picture [180 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [104 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [228 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

There are infinitely many augmentations given by augmenting ˚ _[n]_[`][1] p _c_ ˚ _d_ q and ˚ _[n]_[`][1] p _d_ ˚ _c_ q in pairs. More precisely, there exists a bijection 

t _I_ Ă Zě0u Ñ t _ϵ_ : _A_[p] Ñ Z2 : _ϵ_ is a DGA mapu 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

28 

**==> picture [36 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

where 

**==> picture [174 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

for all _n_ P _I_ and _ϵI_ p _e_ q “ 0 for all other chords _e_ . The linearized differentials satisfy 

**==> picture [36 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

since p _c_ ˚ _d_ q _[n]_ and p _d_ ˚ _c_ q _[n]_ always appear in pairs in any[p] B _e_ . The linearized Legendrian contact homologies are given by 

**==> picture [127 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

for all _I_ , where _H_ 1 _[ϵ][I]_[p][Λ][q “ x] _[c]_[y][.][The][set][of][all][Chekanov][polynomials][is] 

**==> picture [66 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

which agrees with that of the standard unknot computed in the “standard Lagrangian projection”. Indeed, the two diagrams are related by the sequence of Reidemeister moves shown in Figure 22. 

**==> picture [398 x 94] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ` Σ` Σ`<br>RI RII<br>Γ Γ Γ<br>Σ´ Σ´ Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 22 

**Example 5.2.** (the Chekanov 52 knots) We construct a pair of Chekanov 52 knots Λ1, Λ2 that are null-homologous but not null-homotopic. This is motivated by [LS13, Sec. 5.2] using long Legendrian knots defined in [Che02, Sec. 12]. We take the Chekanov 52 knots and perform the inverse closing operation at _a_ 3 to obtain long Legendrian knots Λ _[l]_ 1[,][Λ] _[l]_ 2[,] see Figure 25. Let Σ be a genus-2 surface with dividing set Γ as shown in Figure 23. See Figure 24 for diagrams of Σ˘. Placing Λ _[l]_ 1 _[,]_[ Λ] _[l]_ 2[into][the][box] _[K]_[we][get][Λ][1][,][Λ][2][which][are] Legendrian knots in Σ ˆ R.[†] 

> †To justify the existence of Legendrian lifts of Λ1, Λ2 rigorously, we can apply Section 3.1 by starting with the actual Chekanov 52 knots in R[3] , isotoping it to add two cusps along Γ so that half of it contains _a_ 3 and the other half is the rest of the knot, and then “flipping” the half containing _a_ 3 to Σ´. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

29 

For both Λ1 and Λ2, this procedure decreases the tb number by 1 since a positive selfintersection in Σ` is replaced by a positive self-intersection in Σ´ plus two intersection points with Γ. The rotation number remains the same since the rotation number of the standard unknot shown in right of Figure 23 is 0 by symmetry. Hence, Λ1 and Λ2 have the same classical invariants tbpΛ1q “ tbpΛ2q “ 1 ´ 1 “ 0 and rotpΛ1q “ rotpΛ2q “ 0. 

Now we compute their Chekanov polynomials _P_ Λ1p _t_ q _, P_ Λ2p _t_ q. Observe that[p] B vanishes on all generators _c, d, c_ ˚ _d, d_ ˚ _c, . . ._ along Γ which contributes 2[ř][8] _k_ “1 _[t][k]_[to both] _[ P]_[Λ] 1[p] _[t]_[q][ and] _P_ Λ2p _t_ q. The differential on all other generators remains the same except 

**==> picture [38 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

for both Λ1 _,_ Λ2. Note that _a_ 5 _, a_ 6 still contribute _t_[´][2] _, t_[2] and _t_[0] _, t_[0] to _P_ Λ1p _t_ q _, P_ Λ2p _t_ q, respectively. However, _H_ 1 _[ϵ]_[p][Λ][1][q][vanishes][since][by][a][similar][computation][as][in][[][Che02][]][we] have 

**==> picture [70 x 71] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

_c_ 1 _a_ 7 ` _c_ 2 _a_ 9 ` _c_ 3 ` _c_ 4p _a_ 8 ` _a_ 9q “ 0 ùñ _c_ 1 “ _c_ 2 “ _c_ 3 “ _c_ 4 “ 0 _._ One can check similarly that _H_ 1 _[ϵ]_[p][Λ][2][q][also][vanishes.][Therefore] 

**==> picture [252 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

Hence, Λ1 and Λ2 are not Legendrian isotopic. 

**==> picture [222 x 90] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ´<br>Λ Γ<br>Σ`<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 23. A genus-2 convex surface with a standard unknot. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

30 

**==> picture [331 x 121] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
c K d c d<br>Σ` Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 24. A convex surface with the Chekanov 52 knots. 

**==> picture [323 x 172] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
a 1 a 2 a 1 a 2<br>a 5 a 5<br>a 6 a 6<br>a 8 a 9 a 8 a 9<br>a 4<br>a 4<br>a 3 a 3<br>p a q p b q<br>. . . . . .<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 25. A knot diagram and labeling of (a) Λ _[l]_ 1[and][(b)][Λ] _[l]_ 2[.] 

## 6. Proof of[p] B[2] “ 0 

In this section we prove that Φ˘ : _A_ Γ Ñ _A_ ˘ are DGA maps and thus[p] B[2] “ 0. Our proof uses a broken-heart-type argument analogous to [Che02, Sec. 7]. First we prove[p] B[2] “ 0 assuming that Φ˘ are DGA maps. 

**Theorem 6.1.**[p] B[2] “ 0 _._ 

**Proof.** Note that 

**==> picture [192 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

31 

**==> picture [134 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

We claim that for all _w_ P _A_ Γ, 

**==> picture [170 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

Since[p] B _,_ Γ _,_ Φ˘ are additive, it suffices to prove this when _w_ is a monomial. Now we use induction on the length of _w_ . For a base case, let _a_ be a generator of _A_[p] . Note that 

**==> picture [322 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

Assume the statement holds for all _w_ of length _n_ ´ 1. Then 

**==> picture [137 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [371 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

`Φ`p _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1qpΩpBΓ _an_ q ` Φ`p _an_ q ` Φ´p _an_ qq ` Φ`p _a_ 1 _. . . an_ q ` Φ´p _a_ 1 _. . . an_ q _._ By the induction hypothesis, 

p B ˝ Ωp _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1q “ ΩpBΓp _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1qq ` Φ`p _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1q ` Φ´p _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1q _._ Hence, 

**==> picture [136 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [325 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [376 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [246 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [254 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

“ΩpBΓp _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1q _an_ q ` Ωp _a_ 1 _. . . an_ ´1pBΓ _an_ qq “ΩpBΓp _a_ 1 _. . . an_ qq _._ 

Therefore, 

**==> picture [331 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Proposition 6.2.** Φ˘ are DGA maps. 

**Proof.** It suffices to show that Φ` is a DGA map, as the proof for Φ´ is identical. We already saw in Corollary 4.17 that Φ` preserves the grading. Let _w_ P _A_ Γ be a generator, 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

32 

which we think of as a concatenation of some nonempty compatible set of indecomposable Reeb chords. We’d like to show that 

(†) B` ˝ Φ`p _w_ q “ Φ` ˝ BΓp _w_ q _._ 

Suppose that _v_ P _A_ ` is some monomial appearing in the right hand side of p:q. Then the coefficient associated to _v_ counts the number of disks of the form in Figure 26. That is, it is a count of two disks with common boundary _γ_ whose concatenation has positive end _w_ and negative end _v_ . Without loss of generality, we assume that _a_ is a negatively asymptotic endpoint of the disk with positive end _w_[1] . We also assume for now that the beginning point of _w_[1] is distinct from the end point of _w_[2] . We will address the case that they coincide in Remark 6.3. 

**==> picture [174 x 129] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
a<br>` ´<br>´ `<br>Λ<br>γ<br>` `<br>Γ<br>w [1] w [2]<br>w “  w [1] ˚  w [2]<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 26. A collection of disks corresponding to _v_ in Φ` ˝ BΓ. 

We’d like to show that _v_ appears as a monomial on the right hand side with the same Z2 coefficient as on the left hand side of p:q. Notice that concatenating the two disks along their common boundary _γ_ produces a disk with a positive end at _w_[1] ˚ _w_[2] “ _w_ , one obtuse corner negatively asymptotic to some _a_ P _A_ `, and all other corners acute and negatively asymptotic to chords in _A_ `. We may then consider the disks in Figure 26 as a degeneration of such a disk. Degenerating along the other strand produces the configuration in Figure 27. 

These disks contribute `1 to the coefficient of _v_ in the left hand side of p:q. Note that we assumed a particular position of the Legendrian knot relative to the dividing set Γ. In particular, we assumed that one strand at _a_ intersects Γ, and the other intersects Λ. In the event that the knot Λ is not in this position, then without loss of generality Λ must occupy one of the other three configurations in Figure 28. In each of these cases, following a similar degeneration argument along each strand would contribute 2 ” 0 (mod 2) to either the left hand side or right hand side of p:q. 

**==> picture [10 x 9] intentionally omitted <==**

**Remark 6.3.** Suppose that startp _w_ q “ endp _w_ q. Consider a monomial _v_ P Φ` ˝ BΓp _w_ q. Then the coefficient of _v_ is a count of rigid polygons of the form in Figure 29. Note in 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

33 

**==> picture [174 x 106] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
a<br>` ´<br>´ ` `´ [´]<br>`<br>Λ<br>`<br>Γ<br>w<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 27. Degeneration of disk along second strand, corresponding to _v_ in B` ˝ Φ`. 

particular that the two disks share two boundary arcs, _γ_ and _γ_[1] , which may coincide. If they do not coincide, then at least one disk must have a negative asymptotic end in Σ`. In this case, the argument proceeds identically to that in the proof of Proposition 6.2. If _γ_ and _γ_[1] do coincide, then Λ must have the configuration shown in Figure 30. We may think of this case as a degeneration of a disk along an obtuse corner on Γ at startp _w_[1] q “ endp _w_[2] q. For such a disk there is only one possible degeneration, which would imply that Φ` is not a chain map. We can circumvent this problem by noting that the concatenation of the two disks is a disk whose boundary is _w_ , so that _w_ a contractible Reeb orbit. Restricting to the case that _ξ_ is hypertight eliminates this possibility. 

**Example 6.4.** Consider the standard unknot in Figure 31. Here, Σ “ _S_[2] and Γ is the equator. Clearly _ξ_ is not hypertight, as Γ itself is a contractible Reeb orbit. We compute that Φ`p _a_ ˚ _b_ q “ 1, Φ`p _a_ q “ 1 and Φ`p _b_ q “ 1, so 

**==> picture [192 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

So Φ` is not a chain map. 

## 7. Proof of invariance under Legendrian isotopy 

In this section we prove that p _A_[p] _,_[p] Bq is invariant under Legendrian isotopy by showing that it is invariant under the four types of Legendrian Reidemeister moves for the convex surface projection. 

## 7.1. **Reidemeister IV(a) move.** 

The proof can be divided into two steps: first we make the two DGAs before and after the move agree on all generators in Σ˘ together with _a_ as shown in Figure 32. This step proceeds in a similar way as in [Che02, Sec. 8.4]. Second we make the two DGAs agree on the rest of the generators, namely the generators along Γ other than _a_ . Both steps involve conjugating the differential by a sequence of elementary automorphisms corresponding to the generators. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

34 

**==> picture [396 x 343] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Degeneration 1 Strand Configuration Degeneration 2<br>a a a<br>` ´ ` ´ ` ´<br>´ ` ´ ` ´ `<br>` ` Γ ` ` ` Γ ` ` Γ<br>a a a<br>` ´ ` ´ ` ´<br>´ ` ´ ` `´ [´] ´ ` `´ [´]<br>` `<br>` `<br>´ [´] ´ [´]<br>` `<br>` Γ ` Γ ` Γ<br>a a a<br>` ´ ` ´ ` ´<br>´ ` ´ ` `´ [´] ´ ` `´ [´]<br>´ ` ´ ` ` `<br>`´ `´<br>` ` `<br>Γ Γ Γ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 28. Other strand configurations at obtuse corner _a_ . 

_Step 1:_ Denote by p _A_[´] _,_ B[´] q and p _A_[1] _,_ B[1] q the DGA before and after the move, respectively. We have B[´] p _a_ q “ _b_ ` _v_ for some _v_ . Conjugate B[´] by the elementary automorphism sending _a_ ÞÑ _a_ , _b_ ÞÑ _b_ ` _v_ and still denote the differential by B[´] . This has the effect that B[´] p _a_ q “ _b_ and B[´] p _b_ q “ 0. Similarly, we have B[1] p _a_ q “ _b_ ` _w_ for some _w_ . Conjugate B[1] by the elementary automorphism sending _a_ ÞÑ _a_ , _b_ ÞÑ _b_ ` _w_ and still denote the differential by B[1] . This has the effect that B[1] p _a_ q “ _b_ and B[1] p _b_ q “ 0. Still denote by B[´] the conjugate _s_ ˝ B[´] ˝ _s_[´][1] , where _s_ : _A_[´] Ñ _A_[1] is the identification of generators given by Figure 32, meaning that generators in Σ˘ and indecomposable Reeb chords along Γ are identified as in the figure and decomposable Reeb chords along Γ are identified as follows: in _A_[´] and _A_[1] Reeb chords along Γ (excluding _a_ ) come in pairs p _c_[´] Γ _[, c]_ Γ[1][q][for][which][there][is][a][natural][correspondence] between polygons with a positive corner at _c_[´] Γ[and] _[c]_[1] Γ[,][modulo][those][with][negative][corners] 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

35 

**==> picture [171 x 114] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
a<br>´ ` Λ<br>´ ` ´<br>γ<br>γ [1]<br>` ` Γ<br>w [2] w [1] w [2]<br>w “  w [1] ˚  w [2]<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 29. Generic configuration of disks counted in Φ`p _w_[1] qΦ`p _w_[2] q for a closed Reeb orbit _w_ . 

**==> picture [176 x 124] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Λ<br>γ “ γ [1]<br>` `<br>Γ<br>w [2] w [1] w [2]<br>w “  w [1] ˚  w [2]<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 30. Disks with no negative ends. 

at _b_ . For example, if Γ has only two indecomposable chords _a_ and _c_ (i.e., _c_ and _d_ in Figure 32 are the same chord), then 

**==> picture [311 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

are such pairs, see Figure 33. Also note that any Reeb chord along a different component of Γ than the one containing _a_ is paired with itself. 

Now B[´] and B[1] are both differentials on _A_[1] that agree on _a, b_ P _A_[1] . Order and label the Reeb chords in Σ˘ and _a, b_ by height as 

**==> picture [294 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

By the height property of polygons, B[´] and B[1] also agree on _b_ 1 _, . . . , bm_ . Let _A_ r _i_ s, 0 ď _i_ ď _l_ , be the sub-DGA generated by _ai, . . . , a_ 1 _, a, b, b_ 1 _, . . . , bm_ . Then B[´] and B[1] agree on _A_ r0s. This is the analogue of [Che02, Lemma 8.2(a)]. 

Define a graded linear map 

**==> picture [58 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

36 

**==> picture [149 x 148] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
Σ`<br>Λ<br>b<br>a<br>Γ<br>Σ´<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 31. Standard Legendrian unknot in _S_[2] . 

**==> picture [466 x 102] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
b b<br>IV a d a c IV b d b c<br>Γ Γ<br>d a c Γ d a c Γ<br>b a<br>(a) (b)<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 32. The Reidemeister IV moves 

**==> picture [218 x 81] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
b<br>c a c<br>Γ<br>c a c Γ b<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 33. A correspondence between polygons for _c_ and _a_ ˚ _c_ ˚ _a_ . 

ÞÑ _ybz yaz_ 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

37 

of degree 1 where _y_ is a word not containing _a_ or _b_ and _G_ sends everything else to 0[‡] . For 1 ď _i_ ď _l_ , define a sequence of elementary automorphisms by 

**==> picture [58 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [154 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

where Br0s :“ B[´] and Br _i_ s “ _gi_ ˝ Br _i_ ´1s ˝ _gi_[´][1] . We claim that Br _l_ s “ B[1] on _A_ r _l_ s. By the discussion in [Che02] after Lemma 8.2, it suffices to prove an analog of Lemma 8.2(b). Namely, we claim that 

**==> picture [104 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

for all 1 ď _i_ ď _l_ , where the DGA homomorphism 

**==> picture [100 x 44] intentionally omitted <==**

This follows by observing that B[´] p _ai_ q and B[1] p _ai_ q agree after killing all polygons with negative corners at _b_ . Therefore Br _l_ s “ B[1] on _A_ r _l_ s. 

_Step 2:_ It remains to make Br _l_ s agree with B[1] on all Reeb chords along Γ except _a_ (on which they already agree). The proof is similar to Step 1, except that there are infinitely many such Reeb chords. Enumerate the _c_[1] Γ[’s][by] _[c]_[1] Γ _,i_[,][where] _[i]_[ P][ N][,][so][that] 

**==> picture [114 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

Define an infinite sequence of elementary automorphisms by 

**==> picture [59 x 11] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [170 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

where Br _l_ ` _i_ s “ _hi_ ˝ Br _l_ ` _i_ ´1s ˝ _h_[´] _i_[1][.][We][claim][that] _[h]_[ :][“ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˝] _[ h]_[2][ ˝] _[ h]_[1][is][a][tame][automorphism.] Order the generators of _A_[1] by 

**==> picture [270 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

and let _A_ r _l_ ` _i_ s be the sub-DGA generated by _bm, . . . , b_ 1 _, b, a, a_ 1 _, . . . , al, c_[1] Γ _,_ 1 _[, . . . c]_[1] Γ _,i_[.][It][suf-] fices to show _G_ ˝ pB[1] ` Br _l_ ` _i_ ´1sqp _c_[1] Γ _,i_[q][P] _[A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][.] Since _G_ simply replaces _b_ ’s with _a_ ’s and B[1] p _c_[1] Γ _,i_[q][P] _[A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][by][the][definition][of][height][and][the][ordering,][it][suffices][to][show] Br _l_ ` _i_ ´1s _c_[1] Γ _,i_[P] _[ A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][.][In fact we now prove by induction that][ B][r] _[l]_[`] _[k]_[´][1][s] _[c]_[1] Γ _,i_[P] _[ A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][for all] 1 ď _k_ ď _i_ . Note that 

**==> picture [194 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

> ‡This map is denoted by _h_ in [Che02, Lem. 2.2]. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

38 

The _i_ “ 1 case is trivial. Assume the statement holds for 1 _,_ 2 _, . . . , i_ ´1. Then Br _l_ sp _c_[1] Γ _,_ 1[q P] _[ A]_[r] _[l]_[s] implies _h_ 1 ˝ Br _l_ sp _c_[1] Γ _,i_[q][P] _[A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][,][. . . ,][B][r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][2][s][p] _[c]_[1] Γ _,i_ ´1[q][P] _[A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][2][s][implies] _[h][i]_[´][1][˝ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˝] _[ h]_[1][˝] Br _l_ sp _c_[1] Γ _,i_[q][P] _[A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][.][Thus,] _[h]_[is][a][tame][automorphism.][The][rest][again][follows][from][an] analog of Lemma 8.2(b) and the discussion that follows. More specifically, we claim that pBr _l_ sq _[h]_ p _c_[1] Γ _,i_[q “ B][1][p] _[c]_ Γ[1] _,i_[q] 

for all _i_ . Note that 

**==> picture [330 x 51] intentionally omitted <==**

By induction, B[1] and Br _l_ ` _i_ ´1s agree on _A_ r _l_ ` _i_ ´1s (since Br _l_ ` _i_ ´1s| _A_ r _l_ ` _i_ ´1s “ pBr _l_ sq _[h]_ | _A_ r _l_ ` _i_ ´1s) so Br _l_ ` _i_ ´1sp _c_[1] Γ _,i_[q P] _[ A]_[r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][implies][B][1][ ˝ B][r] _[l]_[`] _[i]_[´][1][s][p] _[c]_[1] Γ _,i_[q “ B] r[2] _l_ ` _i_ ´1s[p] _[c]_ Γ[1] _,i_[q “][ 0.][Hence,] 

**==> picture [360 x 51] intentionally omitted <==**

Assume the following analogue of [Che02, Lemma 8.2(b)] still holds: 

**Lemma 7.1.** _τ_ ˝ Br _l_ sp _c_[1] Γ[q “] _[ τ]_[˝ B][1][p] _[c]_[1] Γ[q][.] 

**==> picture [214 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

**Proof.** (of Lemma 7.1) 

For clarity in this proof we will use the notation Br _l_ sp _c_[´] Γ[q][in][place][of][B][r] _[l]_[s][p] _[c]_[1] Γ[q][.] 

**Case 1) Pairs of Reeb chords starting at the left or right vertices of** _a_ **.** Let _γl_ and _γr_ denote full loops starting at the left and right vertices of _a_ , respectively. Denote the Reeb chord to the right and left of _a_ by _c_ and _d_ , respectively. See Figure 32. Then the corresponding pairs are 

**==> picture [300 x 33] intentionally omitted <==**

where _n_ ě 0 and _c, d_ are not necessarily indecomposible. 

_Case 1-1)_ p _γl[n][, γ] r[n]_[q] _[.]_[Being][a][pair][means][Φ] _[i]_[p] _[γ] l[n]_[q “][ Φ] _[i]_[p] _[γ] r[n]_[q][,] _[i]_[ “ ˘][.][The][remaining][terms] in Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[q][and][B][1][p] _[γ] r[n]_[q][are] 

**==> picture [218 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

39 

**==> picture [224 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [210 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [254 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

where _ci, di_ ’s are indecomposable. 

First note that the first line in the former expression is killed by _τ_ since Φ`p _a_ q “ _b_ in Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[q][and] _[τ]_[p] _[a]_[q “] _[ τ]_[p] _[b]_[q “][ 0.][Similarly,][the][last][line][in][the][latter][expression][is][killed][by] _[τ]_ since Φ´p _a_ q “ _b_ in B[1] p _γr[n]_[q][.][Next][the][pairing][of][p] _[a]_[ ˚] _[ c]_[1] _[, c]_[1][q][and][p] _[c]_[2][˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d, c]_[2][˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[ ˚] _[ a]_[q] implies that the second line and first line of the former and latter expressions, respectively, agree after applying _τ_ to kill all polygons with negative corners at _b_ that may appear in Φ`p _a_ ˚ _c_ 1q in Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[q][and][Φ][´][p] _[c]_[2][ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[ ˚] _[ a]_[q][in][B][1][p] _[γ] r[n]_[q][,][respectively.] 

In general there is line-by-line correspondence until the pairs p _a_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _dm_ ´1 _, c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _dm_ ´1q and p _dm, dm_ ˚ _a_ q which implies the last line and second-to-last line of the remaining terms in Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[q][and][B][1][p] _[γ] r[n]_[q][,][respectively,][agree][(again][after][killing][all][polygons][with][negative] corners at _b_ ). This proves the claim for the pair p _γl[n][, γ] r[n]_[q][.] 

**==> picture [315 x 64] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [278 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [222 x 45] intentionally omitted <==**

By the height property of Legendrian diagrams we have that Φ´p _a_ q “ 0 in Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[q][.][Indeed,] if there were such a polygon, then after the move we have a polygon with all corners being negative, which contradicts the height property. Note that _τ_ pΦ`p _a_ q _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ ˚ _a_ ` _a_ Φ´p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ ˚ _a_ q ` Φ`p _γl[n]_[`][1] q _a_ q “ 0 since Φ`p _a_ q “ _b_ . Thus _τ_ kills the first and last lines of the former expression. The second through second-to-last lines of the former expression agree with the latter in reverse order (again after killing all polygons with negative corners at _b_ ). 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

40 

_Case 1-3)_ p _γl[n]_[˚] _[ a]_[ ˚] _[ c, γ] r[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[q] _[.]_[The][corresponding][terms][are] 

**==> picture [216 x 42] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [236 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [224 x 62] intentionally omitted <==**

Note that the first line of the former expression is killed by _τ_ . The _i_ -th line of the former corresponds to the p _i_ ´ 1q-th line of the latter, where _i_ ě 2. 

_Case 1-4)_ p _γr[n][, γ] l[n]_[q] _[.]_[The][corresponding][terms][are][the][same][as][Case][1-1)][reversed.][Note] that Φ´p _a_ q “ 0 in Br _l_ sp _γr[n]_[q][and][Φ][`][p] _[a]_[q “][ 0][in][B][1][p] _[γ] l[n]_[q][by][the][same][height][property][argument] as in Case 1-2). Also _τ_ pΦ`p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ q _a_ q “ _τ_ p _a_ Φ´p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ qq “ 0. The line-by-line correspondence is the same as in Case 1-1). 

_Case 1-5)_ p _γr[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d, γ] l[n]_[`][1] ˚ _a_ q _._ The corresponding terms are the same as Case 1-2) reversed. Note that Φ`p _a_ q “ 0 in B[1] p _γl[n]_[`][1] ˚ _a_ qq by the same height property argument as in Case 1-2). Also _τ_ p _a_ Φ´p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ ˚ _a_ q ` Φ`p _γl[n]_[`][1] q _a_ ` _γl[n]_[`][1] Φ´p _a_ qq “ 0. The line-by-line correspondence is the same as in Case 1-2). 

_Case 1-6)_ p _γr[n]_[˚] _[c, γ] l[n]_[˚] _[a]_[˚] _[c]_[q] _[.]_[The corresponding terms are the same as Case 1-3) reversed.] Note that Φ`p _a_ q “ 0 in B[1] p _γl[n]_[˚] _[ a]_[ ˚] _[ c]_[q][by][the][same][height][property][argument][as][in][Case] 1-2). The line-by-line correspondence is the same as in Case 1-3). 

**Case 2) Pairs of Reeb chords ending at the left or right vertices of** _a_ **excluding those in Case 1).** This case is similar to Case 1). 

**Case 3) Pairs of Reeb chords that start and end outside of the local disk or pairs of Reeb chords along a different component of** Γ **.** In this case the two sides could differ by some polygons with negative corners at _b_ , which will be killed by _τ_ , respectively. □ 

## 7.2. **Reidemeister IV(b) move.** 

The proof follows the same steps as that of the Type IV(a) move. 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

41 

_Step 1:_ Again denote by p _A_[´] _,_ B[´] q and p _A_[1] _,_ B[1] q the DGA before and after the move, respectively. Write B[´] p _a_ q “ _v_ and B[´] p _b_ q “ _w_ . Then B[1] p _a_ q “ _v_ and B[1] p _b_ q “ _w_ . Denote by B[´] the conjugate _s_ ˝ B[´] ˝ _s_[´][1] , where _s_ : _A_[´] Ñ _A_[1] is the identification of generators given by Figure 32. The pairing is the almost the same as the IV(a) case except that _a_ is replaced by _b_ for Reeb chords along Γ in _A_[1] . For example, if Γ has only two indecomposable chords _a_ and _c_ (i.e., _c_ and _d_ in Figure 32 are the same chord), then 

**==> picture [306 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

are such pairs. Now following the same argument as in the IV(a) case we have Br _l_ s “ B[1] on _A_ r _l_ s. 

_Step 2:_ It remains to make Br _l_ s and B[1] agree on all Reeb chords along Γ. Here the proof is different from that of the Type IV(a) move since _a_ and _b_ do not form a cancelling pair “ anymore, i.e. they are not of the form B _a_ “ _b,_ B _b_ “ 0”. 

**Lemma 7.2.** Br _l_ sp _c_[´] Γ[q “] _[ g]_[ ˝ B][1][p] _[c]_ Γ[1][q ˝] _[ g]_[´][1][for][some][tame][automorphism] _[g]_[:] _[ A]_[1][Ñ] _[ A]_[1][.] 

**Proof. Case 1) Pairs of Reeb chords starting at the left or right vertices of** _a_ **.** Let _γl_ and _γr_ denote full loops starting at the left and right vertices of _a_ , respectively. The corresponding pairs are 

**==> picture [300 x 33] intentionally omitted <==**

where _n_ ě 0 and _c, d_ may or may not be indecomposible. 

**==> picture [372 x 81] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [286 x 80] intentionally omitted <==**

where _ci, di_ ’s are indecomposable. Observe that we have the following correspondence: 

Φ`p _γl[n]_[q Ø][ Φ][`][p] _[c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[q] _[b]_ 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

42 

**==> picture [276 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

This proves Case 1-1). 

**==> picture [372 x 102] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [302 x 63] intentionally omitted <==**

We claim that Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[`][1] ˚ _a_ q and B[1] p _γr[n]_[˚] _[c]_[˚¨ ¨ ¨˚] _[d]_[q][ agree after conjugating][ B][1][by the following] elementary automorphisms: 

**==> picture [258 x 42] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [209 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

Indeed, after the conjugation B[1] p _γr[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[q][is][given][by] 

**==> picture [352 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [24 x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [367 x 45] intentionally omitted <==**

(Note that the second through third-to-last lines have two copies of Φ`p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _dm_ ´1qp _dm_ ˚ _b_ q _a, . . . ,_ Φ`p _c_ 1qp _c_ 2 ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ ˚ _b_ q _a_ , respectively, that are canceled.) The first line corresponds to that of Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[`][1] ˚ _a_ q. The second through third-to-last lines correspond to the second through second-to-last lines of Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[`][1] ˚ _a_ q. The second-to-last line corresponds to the 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

43 

last line of Br _l_ sp _γl[n]_[`][1] ˚ _a_ q. The last line evaluates to 0 since Φ´p _b_ q “ Φ`p _a_ q “ 0. This proves Case 1-2). 

**==> picture [248 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [306 x 79] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [272 x 79] intentionally omitted <==**

Observe that we have the following correspondence: 

**==> picture [332 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

This proves Case 1-3). 

**==> picture [137 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [294 x 79] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [249 x 60] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

44 

**==> picture [227 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

We have the following correspondence: 

**==> picture [174 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [14 x 2] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [294 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [268 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [14 x 2] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [165 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

Conjugate Br _l_ s by the following elementary automorphisms: 

**==> picture [224 x 44] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [113 x 10] intentionally omitted <==**

Note that the first elementary automorphism introduces the terms 

Φ`p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ q _a_ `Φ´p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ q _a_ ` _c_ 1Φ´p _c_ 2˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ q _a_ `¨ ¨ ¨` _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _dm_ ´1Φ´p _dm_ q _a_ ` _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ Φ´p _a_ q while the terms 

**==> picture [242 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

are canceled by the other elementary automorphisms. (Here we also used the fact that _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ Φ`p _a_ q “ p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ q¨0 “ 0.) Conjugate B[1] by the following elementary automorphisms: 

**==> picture [157 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [14 x 2] intentionally omitted <==**

_b_ ˚ _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _dm_ ´1 ÞÑ _b_ ˚ _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _dm_ ´1 ` _b_ p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _dm_ ´1q _._ 

Note that the first elementary automorphism introduces the terms 

Φ`p _b_ q _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ ` _b_ Φ´p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ q` _b_ Φ`p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ q` _b_ Φ`p _c_ 1q _c_ 2˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _d_ `¨ ¨ ¨` _b_ Φ`p _c_ ˚¨ ¨ ¨˚ _dm_ ´1q _dm_ while the terms 

**==> picture [240 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

45 

are canceled by the other elementary automorphisms. (Here we also used the fact that Φ´p _b_ q _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ “ 0 ¨ p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _d_ q “ 0.) To finish the proof of Case 1-4) it remains to observe that both sides with the newly introduced terms represent the same polygons under the correspondence listed above. 

**==> picture [358 x 83] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [334 x 100] intentionally omitted <==**

We have the following correspondence: 

**==> picture [459 x 44] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [149 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [168 x 44] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [177 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

Conjugate B[1] by the elementary automorphisms 

**==> picture [200 x 43] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [276 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

46 

The first elementary automorphism introduces the terms 

Φ`p _b_ qp _γl[n]_[˚] _[c]_[˚¨ ¨ ¨˚] _[d]_[˚] _[b]_[q`] _[b]_[Φ][`][p] _[γ] r[n]_[˚] _[c]_[˚¨ ¨ ¨˚] _[d]_[˚] _[b]_[q`] _[b]_[Φ][´][p] _[γ] r[n]_[˚] _[c]_[˚¨ ¨ ¨˚] _[d]_[˚] _[b]_[q`] _[b]_[Φ][`][p] _[γ] r[n]_[˚] _[c]_[˚¨ ¨ ¨˚] _[d]_[q] _[b,]_ of which Φ`p _b_ qp _γl[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[ ˚] _[ b]_[q `] _[ b]_[Φ][´][p] _[γ] r[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[ ˚] _[ b]_[q][cancel][with][the][second][line][of] the original B[1] p _γl[n]_[`][1] ˚ _b_ q, the terms 

_b_ Φ`p _γr[n]_[˚] _[ d]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d][m]_[´][1][q] _[d][m]_[˚] _[ b]_[ ` ¨ ¨ ¨ `] _[ b]_[Φ][`][p] _[c]_[1][q] _[c]_[2][˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[ ˚] _[ b,]_ 

and the terms 

**==> picture [294 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

which cancel with the terms introduced by the other elementary automorphisms. (Here we used the fact that Φ´p _b_ qp _γr[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[ ˚] _[ b]_[q “] _[ b]_[p] _[γ] r[n]_[˚] _[ c]_[ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚] _[ d]_[q][Φ][´][p] _[b]_[q “][ 0][since][Φ][´][p] _[b]_[q “][ 0.)] Now Case 1-5) follows from the correspondence listed above. 

**==> picture [339 x 96] intentionally omitted <==**

and 

**==> picture [277 x 61] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [239 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

we have the following correspondence: 

**==> picture [202 x 42] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [306 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [160 x 61] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

47 

Conjugate B[1] by the following elementary automorphisms: 

**==> picture [155 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [14 x 2] intentionally omitted <==**

_b_ ˚ _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _cm_ ´1 ÞÑ _b_ ˚ _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _cm_ ´1 ` _b_ p _c_ ˚ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˚ _cm_ ´1q _._ 

The first elementary automorphism introduces the terms 

**==> picture [204 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

of which the first and the third cancel with the second line of B[1] p _γl[n]_[˚] _[ b]_[ ˚] _[ c]_[q][,][the][terms] 

**==> picture [230 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

and the terms 

**==> picture [214 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

which cancel with the terms introduced by the other elementary automorphisms. Now Case 1-6) follows from the correspondence listed above. This also finishes Case 1). 

**Case 2) Pairs of Reeb chords ending at the left or right vertices of** _a_ **excluding those in Case 1).** This case is similar to Case 1). 

**Case 3) Pairs of Reeb chords that start and end outside of the local disk or pairs of Reeb chords along a different component of** Γ **.** In this case the two sides coincide. □ 

## 7.3. **Reidemeister I move.** 

Without loss of generality we assume that _b_ is in Σ`. Recall that in [Che02], the stabilization of a DGA _A_ is the free product _A_ \ _E_ of _A_ where _E_ “ _T_ p _a, b_ q with B _Ea_ “ _b_ and B _Eb_ “ 0. In our case, the Reidemeister I move introduces infinitely many Reeb chords along the dividing set, so we need infinitely many stabilization operations. This is Step 1 below. Then as in the proof of the Type IV(a) move, we use an analog of [Che02, Lemma 8.2] and the discussion that follows to finish the proof. This is Step 2 below. 

**Lemma 7.3.** Again denote by p _A_[´] _,_ B[´] q and p _A_[1] _,_ B[1] q the DGA before and after the move, respectively. One can perform infinitely many stabilization operations on _A_[1] so that _A_[1] is tame isomorphic to _A_[´] . 

**Proof.** Our proof consists of two steps: in Step 1 we group the newly introduced Reeb chords into three groups of cancelling pairs t _ci, c_[1] _i_[u] _[i]_[P][N] _[,]_[ t] _[d][i][, d]_[1] _i_[u] _[i]_[P][N] _[,]_[ t] _[a, b]_[u][and][perform] infinitely many stabilization operations and conjugate B[´] by infinitely many elementary automorphisms (denoted by _s_ ) so that B _[s] ci_ “ _c_[1] _i[,]_[ B] _[s][d][i]_[“] _[d]_[1] _i[,]_[ B] _[s][a]_[“] _[b]_[.][In][Step][2][we][further] conjugate B _[s]_ by elementary automorphisms so that the differentials before and after the 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

48 

move agree on all Reeb chords. 

_Step 1-1. Stabilization I_ 

**==> picture [299 x 82] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
b b<br>c [1] a Γ a d [1] Γ<br>i i<br>ci “  c [1] i [˚] [ a] di “  d [1] i [˚] [ a]<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 34 

Denote the Reeb chords that end at the left and right vertices of _a_ by t _c_[1] _i[, c][i]_[u] _[i]_[P][N][,][re-] spectively, so that they are sorted by increasing numbers of indecomposable chords. See Figure 34. We claim that there exists a tame automorphism _g_ such that B _[g]_ :“ _g_ ˝ B[´] ˝ _g_[´][1] satisfies 

B _[g] ci_ “ _c_[1] _i_[(and][thus][B] _[g][c]_[1] _i_[“][ 0][q] 

for all _i_ . Define a sequence of elementary automorphisms _gi_ by 

**==> picture [64 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

We want to show that B[´] _ci_ “ _c_[1] _i_[`] _[w][i]_[for some] _[ w][i]_[containing no terms involving] _[ c]_[1] _j_[.][Indeed,] note that 

**==> picture [264 x 24] intentionally omitted <==**

where the only term involving _c_[1] _j_[is][when] _[e]_[2][“] _[a]_[and] _[e]_[1][Φ][´][p] _[e]_[2][q][“] _[c]_[1] _i_[.][Clearly][B][´] _[c][i]_[cannot] produce any Reeb chord longer than _ci_ . In fact, if we are close enough to the moment of bifurcation _a_ is short enough so that any Reeb chord in B[´] _ci_ is strictly shorter than _c_[1] _i_ except _c_[1] _i_[itself.][But][we][already][showed][that] _[w][i]_[does][not][involve] _[c]_[1] _i_[.][As][before][we][pick][any] ordering such that all generators along Γ have higher ranks than all generators from Σ˘ and the generators along Γ are ranked by height. Then 

**==> picture [77 x 8] intentionally omitted <==**

is a tame automorphism and 

**==> picture [116 x 49] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

49 

**==> picture [209 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

_Step 1-2. Stabilization II_ 

Denote the Reeb chords that start at the left and right vertices of _a_ (but are not already labeled by _ci, c_[1] _i_[)][by][t] _[d][i][, d]_[1] _i_[u] _[i]_[P][N][.][See][Figure][34][.][Define][a][sequence][of][elementary] automorphisms _h_[1] _i[, h]_[2] _i_[inductively][by] 

**==> picture [86 x 36] intentionally omitted <==**

where _h_[1] _i,...,_ 1[:][“] _[h]_[1] _i_[˝] _[ h]_[1] _i_ ´1[˝ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˝] _[ h]_ 1[1][.][We][want][to][show][that][B] _[h] i,...,_[1] 1 _di_ “ _d_[1] _i_[`] _[ v][i]_[for][some] _[v][i]_ containing no terms involving _d_[1] _j_[.][Indeed,][note][that] 

**==> picture [374 x 47] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [101 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

where _e_ are old chords and _j_ 

**==> picture [252 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

Thus, 

**==> picture [443 x 17] intentionally omitted <==**

The above computation of B _[h] i,...,_[1] 1 _di_ is actually a partial lie since some of the _dj_ ’s may have already been labeled by _ci, c_[1] _i_[’s.][If][this][does][not][happen,][then][applying] _[h]_[1] _i,...,_ 1[replaces] _[d][j]_ with _dj_ ` _ad_[1] _j_[,][so we get an extra term] _[ a]_[ ř] _[ d]_[1] _j_[Φ][´][p] _[e][j]_[q][,][which cancels with the corresponding] term in _a_ B _d_[1] _i_[and][no] _[d]_[1] _j_[terms][exist][(other][than] _[d]_[1] _i_[).] Otherwise Φ´p _ej_ q “ 0 by local configuration of the move and _dj_ Φ´p _ej_ q “ _d_[1] _j_[Φ][´][p] _[e][j]_[q “][ 0 so again no] _[ d]_[1] _j_[terms exist.][Clearly] _a_ and _d_[1] _i_[are][shorter][than] _[d][i]_[.][Similar][to][Step][1-1,][B] _[h] i,...,_[1] 1 _di_ cannot produce any Reeb chord longer than _di_ , and moreover if we are close enough to the moment of bifurcation _a_ is short enough so that any Reeb chord in B _[h] i,...,_[1] 1 _di_ is strictly shorter than _d_[1] _i_[except] _[d]_[1] _i_[itself.][But] we already showed that _vi_ does not involve _d_[1] _i_[.][Hence] 

**==> picture [162 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

is a tame automorphism. Note that 

**==> picture [195 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

50 

and 

**==> picture [414 x 124] intentionally omitted <==**

_Step 1-3. Stabilization III_ 

Note that B[´] _a_ “ _b_ ` 1 and B[´] _b_ “ 0. Let _k_ be the elementary automorphism _b_ ÞÑ _b_ ` 1 and let _s_ :“ _k_ ˝ _h_ ˝ _g_ . Then B _[s] a_ “ _b_ . Clearly we still have B _[s]_ p _ci_ q “ _c_[1] _i_[and][B] _[s]_[p] _[d][i]_[q “] _[ d]_[1] _i_[.][This] finishes the stabilization part of the proof. 

_Step 2. Old chords_ 

We want to conjugate B _[s]_ by a tame automorphism so that it also agrees with B[1] on the old chords. 

**Lemma 7.4.** Let _y_ be a generator of _A_[´] that is not affected by the move. Let _τ_ : _A_[´] Ñ _A_[´] be the projection map that sends all new chords _a, b, cj, c_[1] _j[, d][j][, d]_[1] _j_[to][0.][Then] 

**==> picture [98 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

**Proof.** This is again an analog of [Che02, Lem. 8.2(b)]. 

**Case 1)** _y_ **is of the form** _c_[1] _i_[˚] _[ a]_[ ˚] _[ d]_[1] _i_ **[.]**[To][avoid][confusion][we][denote][Φ][˘][in][B] _[s]_[by][Φ] _[s]_ ˘ and Φ˘ in B[1] by Φ[1] ˘[.][Note][that] 

**==> picture [290 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

where _w_ collects all terms in ΩpBΓp _y_ qq not involving _cj, c_[1] _j[, d][j][, d]_[1] _j_[.][Note][that] 

**==> picture [366 x 53] intentionally omitted <==**

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

51 

**==> picture [262 x 179] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
b b<br>`<br>c [1] a d [1] Γ c [1] a d [1] Γ<br>i i i i<br>b b<br>`<br>c [1] i a d [1] i Γ c [1] i a d [1] j ej Γ<br>d 1 i [“] [ d] [1] j [˚] [ e][j]<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**==> picture [95 x 40] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [107 x 46] intentionally omitted <==**

Figure 35 

where by Step 1-2 we have 

**==> picture [382 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

Thus, 

**==> picture [358 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

At the same time, we have B[1] p _y_ q “ Φ[1] `[p] _[y]_[q `][ Φ] ´[1][p] _[y]_[q `][ Ω][pB][Γ] _[y]_[q][,][where] 

**==> picture [194 x 60] intentionally omitted <==**

See Figure 35 for the case when Φ _[s]_ `[p] _[c][i]_[q] _[,]_[ Φ] _[s]_ `[p] _[d][i]_[q] _[,]_[ Φ] _[s]_ `[p] _[d][j]_[q][do][not][have][negative][corners][at] _[b]_[.] Now we have both _τ_ ˝ B _[s]_ p _y_ q and _τ_ ˝ B[1] p _y_ q are 

**==> picture [308 x 25] intentionally omitted <==**

**Case 2)** _y_ **is an old chord along** Γ **that does not involve** _a_ **or an old chord in** Σ˘ **.** If _y_ is in Σ´, then B _[s]_ p _y_ q “ B[1] p _y_ q since we assumed _b_ is in Σ`. In general, B _[s]_ p _y_ q replaces all _b_ ’s in B[´] p _y_ q by _b_ ` 1 so that after _τ_ kills all terms involving _b, ci, c_[1] _i[, d][i][, d]_[1] _i_[we] have _τ_ ˝ B _[s]_ p _y_ q “ _τ_ ˝ B[1] p _y_ q. See Figure 36 for the case when _y_ is an old chord along Γ. □ 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

52 

**==> picture [428 x 97] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
b<br>y c [1] i a d [1] i Γ y c [1] i [˚] [ a] [ ˚] [ d] [1] i Γ<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Figure 36 

As before we finish the proof using a similar argument as in the discussion that follows [Che02, Lemma 8.2]. Relabel the new chords by t _ai, xi_ u _i_ PN, where B _[s] ai_ “ _xi_ , B _[s] xi_ “ 0, _a_ 1 “ _a_ , _x_ 1 “ _b_ , _H_ p _x_ 1q ă _H_ p _a_ 1q ă _H_ p _x_ 2q ă _H_ p _a_ 2q ă _. . ._ . Indeed, by taking a time sufficiently close to the bifurcation time we may assume (a) _H_ p _b_ q is the smallest and _H_ p _a_ q is the second smallest and (b) _H_ p _ai_ q ´ _H_ p _xi_ q “ _H_ p _a_ q ( _i_ ě 2) is small enough so that no old chord has height between _H_ p _ai_ q and _H_ p _xi_ q. Then we have 

_H_ p _x_ 1q ă _H_ p _a_ 1q ă _H_ p _b_[1] 1[q ă] _[ . . .]_[ ă] _[ H]_[p] _[b]_[1] _n_ 1[q ă] _[ H]_[p] _[x]_[2][q ă] _[ H]_[p] _[a]_[2][q ă] _[ H]_[p] _[b]_ 1[2][q ă] _[ . . .]_[ ă] _[ H]_[p] _[b]_[2] _n_ 2[q ă] _[ . . . ,]_ where _b[j]_[Define an infinite sequence of elementary automorphisms] _i_[’s denote the old chords.] _t[j] i_[:] _[ b][j] i_[ÞÑ] _[ b][j] i_[`] _[ q] i[j][,]_ 

where 

**==> picture [275 x 57] intentionally omitted <==**

for all _i_ where _y_ is a word not containing _ai_ or _xi_ and _G_ sends everything else to 0. Let _A[j]_ r _i_ s[be][the][subalgebra][of] _[A]_[´][generated][by] _[x]_[1] _[, a]_[1] _[, . . . , b][j] i_[.][First][we][claim][that] _[q] i[j]_[P] _A[j]_ r _i_ ´1s[,][so][that][the][ordering][given][by][the][above][ranking][by][height][guarantees][that][the] infinite composition of _t[j] i_[’s][is][a][tame][automorphism.][Base][case:] _[q]_ 1[1][“] _[G]_[ ˝ pB] _[s]_[` B][1][qp] _[b]_[1] 1[q][.] Since _g_ p _c_[1] _i_[q][“][B][´] _[c][i]_[,][and][there][is][no][chord][with][height][in][between][that][of] _[c][i]_[and] _[c]_[1] _i_[,][then] applying _g_ does not introduce any chords with larger heights. Similar statements hold for _h_ and _k_ . So B _[s]_ p _b_[1] 1[q][“] _[s]_[ ˝ B][´][p] _[b]_[1] 1[q][P] _[A]_[1] r0s[,][which][implies] _[q]_ 1[1][P] _[A]_[1] r0s[and] _[t]_[1] 1[p] _[A]_[1] r1s[q][Ă] _[A]_[1] r1s[.][Then] Br[1] 1s[p] _[b]_ 2[1][q][“] _[t]_[1] 1[˝] _[ s]_[ ˝ B][´][p] _[b]_[1] 2[q][P] _[A]_[1] r1s[,][which][implies] _[q]_ 2[1][P] _[A]_[1] r1s[and] _[t]_[1] 2[p] _[A]_[1] r2s[q][Ă] _[A]_[1] r2s[.][Proceed][by] induction and get _qi_[1][P] _[ A]_[1] r _i_ ´1s[for all 1][ ď] _[ i]_[ ď] _[ n]_[1][.][Now we have][ B] r[2] 0s[p] _[b]_ 1[2][q “ B] r[1] _n_ 1s[p] _[b]_ 1[2][q P] _[ A]_[1] r _n_ 1s[“] 

INVARIANTS OF LEGENDRIAN KNOTS IN THICKENED CONVEX SURFACES 

53 

_A_[2] r0s[so] _[q]_ 1[2][P] _[A]_[2] r0s[and] _[t]_[2] 1[p] _[A]_[2] r1s[q][Ă] _[A]_[2] r1s[.][Proceed][by][induction][again][and][get] _[q] i_[2][P] _[A]_[2] r _i_ ´1s[for] all 1 ď _i_ ď _n_ 2. Eventually we get _qi[j]_[P] _[ A][j]_ r _i_ ´1s[for][all] _[i, j]_[.] 

Next we claim that B[1] and Br _[j] i_ s[agree][on] _[A][j]_ r _i_ s[.][Observe][that][B] r _[j] i_ s[p] _[b] i[j]_ `1[q “] _[ t][j] i_[˝ ¨ ¨ ¨ ˝] _[ t]_ 1[1][˝] _[ s]_[ ˝] B[´] p _b[j] i_ `1[q][P] _[A][j]_ r _i_ s[by][the][previous][paragraph.][Base][case:] _[i]_[“][0,] _[j]_[“][1.][B][1][and][B] _[s]_[agree][on] _x_ 1 “ _b, a_ 1 “ _a_ . Indeed, both B[1] and B _[s]_ send _a_ ÞÑ _b, b_ ÞÑ 0. Assume B[1] and Br[1] _i_ s[agree][on] _A_[1][Then] r _i_ s[.] 

**==> picture [345 x 148] intentionally omitted <==**

Hence, Br[1] _i_ `1s[and][B][1][agree][on] _[A]_[1] r _i_ `1s[.][Proceed][by][induction][and][get][B] r[1] _n_ 1s[and][B][1][agree] on _A_[1] r _n_ 1s[.][Note that][ B] r[2] 0s[“ B] r[1] _n_ 1s[and][ B][1][also agree on] _[ a]_[2] _[, x]_[2][and thus on] _[ A]_[2] r0s[.][Then proceed] by induction again. This finishes the proof of Lemma 7.3. □ 

## 7.4. **Reidemeister III and II moves.** 

We adapt Chekanov’s proof for the Reidemeister III and II moves in Lagrangian projection to our case. All notations used in this subsection come from [Che02, Sec 8.2-8.4] which we recommend that the reader review before moving on. Without loss of generality we assume the moves take place in Σ`. 

The proof for Move IIIa is the same since all we need is an identification of the double points before and after the move as shown in Figure 14. For Move IIIb, the key is to prove 

**==> picture [76 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

If _s_ is a generator of _A_ ˘ then the same argument applies since[p] Bp _s_ q “ B˘p _s_ q by our definition. Assume _s_ is a Reeb chord along Γ. Then the same argument gives 

**==> picture [82 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

where Φ[´] `[and][Φ][`][are][the][DGA][maps][before][and][after][the][move.][More][generally,][we][have] Φ[´][“] _[g]_[Φ][`][p] _[s]_[1][where][B][Γ] _[s]_[“][ř][Hence][Φ][´] _[g]_[p][Φ][`][p] _[s]_[1][On][the][other] `[p] _[s]_[1] _j_[q] _j_[q][,] _j[s]_[1] _j[s]_[2] _j_[.] `[p] _[s]_[1] _j_[q] _[s]_[2] _j_[“] _j_[q] _[s]_[2] _j_[q][.] hand, we have _s_[1] _j_[Φ] ´[´][p] _[s]_[2] _j_[q][“] _[g]_[p] _[s]_[1] _j_[Φ][´][p] _[s]_[2] _j_[qq][since][Φ][´] ´[agrees][with][Φ][´][.][Putting][these][together] gives B´p _s_ q “ _g_ B`p _s_ q, i.e., B´p _s_ q “ B` _[g]_[p] _[s]_[q][.] 

REFERENCES 

54 

For Move II, in contrast to Chekanov’s case we have infinitely many Reeb chords ranked by 

¨ ¨ ¨ ě _H_ p _a_ 2q ě _H_ p _a_ 1q ě _H_ p _a_ q ą _H_ p _b_ q ě _H_ p _b_ 1q ě ¨ ¨ ¨ ě _H_ p _bm_ q _._ The key is to prove Lemma 8.2(b), and more specifically that 

**==> picture [80 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

If _aj_ is a Reeb chord in Σ˘ then the same argument applies. Assume _aj_ is a Reeb chord along Γ. Then the same argument gives 

**==> picture [100 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

where again Φ[´] `[and][Φ][`][denote][the][DGA][maps][before][and][after][the][move.][More][gen-] erally, we have _ζ_ pΦ[´] `[p] _[a]_[1] _j,i_[qq][“][Φ][`][p] _[a]_[1] _j,i_[q][,][where][B][Γ] _[a][j]_[“][ř] _i[a]_[1] _j,i[a]_[2] _j,i_[.][Thus,] _[ζ]_[p][Φ][´] `[p] _[a]_[1] _j,i_[q] _[a]_[2] _j,i_[q][“] Φ`p _a_[1] _j,i_[q] _[a]_[2] _j,i_[.][On][the][other][hand,][we][have] _[ζ]_[p] _[a]_[1] _j,i_[Φ] ´[´][p] _[a]_[2] _j,i_[qq][“] _[a]_[1] _j,i_[Φ][´][p] _[a]_[2] _j,i_[q][since][Φ][´] ´[agrees] with Φ´. Putting these together gives _ζ_ pB[´] p _aj_ qq “ B _aj_ . 

## References 

- [Avd23] Russell Avdek. _An algebraic generalization of Giroux’s criterion_ . 2023. arXiv: `2307.09068 [math.SG]` . url: `https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.09068` . 

- [Bj¨o16] Johan Bj¨orklund. “Legendrian contact homology in the product of a punctured Riemann surface and the real line”. In: _J. Lond. Math. Soc. (2)_ 94.3 (2016), pp. 970–992. issn: 0024-6107,1469-7750. doi: `10 . 1112 / jlms / jdw066` . url: `https://doi-org.libproxy2.usc.edu/10.1112/jlms/jdw066` . 

- [Bra23] Jack Brand. “Morse Structures on Open Book Decompositions with Punctured Torus Pages”. PhD thesis. Australian National University, Apr. 2023. 

- [Che02] Yuri Chekanov. “Differential algebra of Legendrian links”. In: _Invent. Math._ 150.3 (2002), pp. 441–483. issn: 0020-9910,1432-1297. doi: `10.1007/s002220200212` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1007/s002220200212` . 

- [Col+11] Vincent Colin et al. “Sutures and contact homology I”. In: _Geom. Topol._ 15.3 (2011), pp. 1749–1842. issn: 1465-3060,1364-0380. doi: `10.2140/gt.2011.15. 1749` . url: `https://doi-org.libproxy2.usc.edu/10.2140/gt.2011.15. 1749` . 

- [EES05] Tobias Ekholm, John Etnyre, and Michael Sullivan. “The contact homology of Legendrian submanifolds in R[2] _[n]_[`][1] ”. In: _J. Differential Geom._ 71.2 (2005), pp. 177–305. issn: 0022-040X,1945-743X. url: `http://projecteuclid.org/ euclid.jdg/1143651770` . 

- [EES07] Tobias Ekholm, John Etnyre, and Michael Sullivan. “Legendrian contact homology in _P_ ˆ R”. In: _Trans. Amer. Math. Soc._ 359.7 (2007), pp. 3301–3335. issn: 0002-9947,1088-6850. doi: `10.1090/S0002- 9947- 07- 04337- 1` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1090/S0002-9947-07-04337-1` . 

REFERENCES 

55 

- [EGH00] Y. Eliashberg, A. Givental, and H. Hofer. “Introduction to symplectic field theory”. In: GAFA 2000 (Tel Aviv, 1999). 2000, pp. 560–673. doi: `10.1007/9783-0346-0425-3\_4` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-0346-0425-3_4` . 

- [EHK16] Tobias Ekholm, Ko Honda, and Tam´as K´alm´an. “Legendrian knots and exact Lagrangian cobordisms”. In: _J. Eur. Math. Soc. (JEMS)_ 18.11 (2016), pp. 2627– 2689. issn: 1435-9855,1435-9863. doi: `10.4171/JEMS/650` . url: `https://doi. org/10.4171/JEMS/650` . 

- [Ekh16] Tobias Ekholm. “Non-loose Legendrian spheres with trivial contact homology DGA”. In: _J. Topol._ 9.3 (2016), pp. 826–848. issn: 1753-8416,1753-8424. doi: `10.1112/jtopol/jtw008` . url: `https://doi-org.libproxy1.usc.edu/10. 1112/jtopol/jtw008` . 

- [EN15] Tobias Ekholm and Lenhard Ng. “Legendrian contact homology in the boundary of a subcritical Weinstein 4-manifold”. In: _J. Differential Geom._ 101.1 (2015), pp. 67–157. issn: 0022-040X,1945-743X. url: `http://projecteuclid.org. libproxy1.usc.edu/euclid.jdg/1433975484` . 

- [EN22] John B. Etnyre and Lenhard L. Ng. “Legendrian contact homology in R[3] ”. In: _Surveys in differential geometry 2020. Surveys in 3-manifold topology and geometry_ . Vol. 25. Surv. Differ. Geom. Int. Press, Boston, MA, [2022] ©2022, pp. 103–161. isbn: 978-1-57146-419-4. 

- [ENS02] John B. Etnyre, Lenhard L. Ng, and Joshua M. Sabloff. “Invariants of Legendrian knots and coherent orientations”. In: _J. Symplectic Geom._ 1.2 (2002), pp. 321–367. issn: 1527-5256,1540-2347. doi: `10.4310/jsg.2001.v1.n2.a5` . url: `https://doi-org.libproxy2.usc.edu/10.4310/jsg.2001.v1.n2.a5` . 

- [ET25] John B. Etnyre and B¨ulent Tosun. “Low-Dimensional Contact Geometry”. preprint. 2025. url: `https://etnyre.math.gatech.edu/preprints/ContactBookV0. 1.pdf` . 

- [Etn03] John B. Etnyre. “Introductory lectures on contact geometry”. In: _Topology and geometry of manifolds (Athens, GA, 2001)_ . Vol. 71. Proc. Sympos. Pure Math. Amer. Math. Soc., Providence, RI, 2003, pp. 81–107. isbn: 0-8218-3507-6. doi: `10.1090/pspum/071/2024631` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1090/pspum/071/ 2024631` . 

- [Gei06] Hansj¨org Geiges. “Contact geometry”. In: _Handbook of differential geometry. Vol. II_ . Elsevier/North-Holland, Amsterdam, 2006, pp. 315–382. isbn: 978-0444-52052-4; 0-444-52052-X. doi: `10.1016/S1874- 5741(06)80008- 7` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1016/S1874-5741(06)80008-7` . 

- [Ghi12] Paolo Ghiggini. “Introduction to Legendrian knots and Legendrian contact homology”. In: 2012. 

- [Gir91] Emmanuel Giroux. “Convexit´e en topologie de contact”. In: _Comment. Math. Helv._ 66.4 (1991), pp. 637–677. issn: 0010-2571,1420-8946. doi: `10 . 1007 / BF02566670` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02566670` . 

REFERENCES 

56 

- [K´al05] Tam´as K´alm´an. “Contact homology and one parameter families of Legendrian knots”. In: _Geom. Topol._ 9 (2005), pp. 2013–2078. issn: 1465-3060,1364-0380. doi: `10.2140/gt.2005.9.2013` . url: `https://doi.org/10.2140/gt.2005.9. 2013` . 

- [Lic11] Joan E. Licata. “Invariants for Legendrian knots in lens spaces”. In: _Commun. Contemp. Math._ 13.1 (2011), pp. 91–121. issn: 0219-1997,1793-6683. doi: `10. 1142/S0219199711004178` . url: `https://doi-org.libproxy1.usc.edu/10. 1142/S0219199711004178` . 

- [LS13] Joan E. Licata and Joshua M. Sabloff. “Legendrian contact homology in Seifert fibered spaces”. In: _Quantum Topol._ 4.3 (2013), pp. 265–301. issn: 1663-487X,1664073X. doi: `10.4171/QT/40` . url: `https://doi.org/10.4171/QT/40` . 

- [NT04] Lenhard Ng and Lisa Traynor. “Legendrian solid-torus links”. In: _J. Symplectic Geom._ 2.3 (2004), pp. 411–443. issn: 1527-5256,1540-2347. doi: `10.4310/jsg. 2004.v2.n3.a6` . url: `https://doi-org.libproxy2.usc.edu/10.4310/jsg. 2004.v2.n3.a6` . 

- [PR21] Yu Pan and Dan Rutherford. “Functorial LCH for immersed Lagrangian cobordisms”. In: _J. Symplectic Geom._ 19.3 (2021), pp. 635–722. issn: 1527-5256,15402347. doi: `10.4310/JSG.2021.v19.n3.a5` . url: `https://doi.org/10.4310/ JSG.2021.v19.n3.a5` . 

- [Ron25] Zijian Rong. “Legendrian Reidemeister Moves for the Convex Surface Projection”. In: (2025). in progress. 

- [Sab03] Joshua M. Sabloff. “Invariants of Legendrian knots in circle bundles”. In: _Commun. Contemp. Math._ 5.4 (2003), pp. 569–627. issn: 0219-1997,1793-6683. doi: `10.1142/S0219199703001075` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1142/S0219199703001075` . 

- [Siv11] Steven Sivek. “A bordered Chekanov-Eliashberg algebra”. In: _J. Topol._ 4.1 (2011), pp. 73–104. issn: 1753-8416,1753-8424. doi: `10.1112/jtopol/jtq035` . url: `https://doi.org/10.1112/jtopol/jtq035` . 

- Department of Mathematics, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 94703, 

- USA 

_Email address_ : `nm.eagles@berkeley.edu` 

- Department of Mathematics, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, 90007, 

- USA 

_Email address_ : `zijianro@usc.edu` 

